# 3.3 Summary







- Abaqus has an extensive library of elements that can be used for a wide range of structural applications. Your choice of element type has important consequences regarding the accuracy and efficiency of your simulation. The elements available in Abaqus/Explicit are (in general) a subset of those available in Abaqus/Standard.
- The degrees of freedom active at a node depend on the element types attached to the node.
- The element name completely identifies the element's family, formulation, number of nodes, and type of integration.
- All elements must refer to a section property definition. The section property provides any additional data required to define the geometry of the element and also identifies the associated material property definition.
- For continuum elements Abaqus defines the element output variables, such as stress and strain, with respect to the global Cartesian coordinate system. You can change to a local coordinate system by using the [*ORIENTATION](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-morientation) option.
- For three-dimensional shell elements Abaqus defines the element output variables with respect to a coordinate system based on the surface of the shell. You can change the coordinate system by using the [*ORIENTATION](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-morientation) option.
- For computational efficiency any part of a model can be defined as a rigid body, which has degrees of freedom only at its reference node.
- As a method of constraint in an Abaqus/Explicit analysis, rigid bodies are computationally more efficient than multi-point constraints.




