# 4.6 Suggested reading







The volume of literature that has been written on the finite element method and the applications of finite element analysis is enormous. In most of the remaining chapters of this guide, a list of suggested books and articles is provided so that you can explore the topics in more depth if you wish. While the advanced references will not be of interest to most users, they provide detailed theoretical information for the interested user.

**General texts on the finite element method**

- NAFEMS Ltd., *A Finite Element Primer*, 1986.
- Becker, E. B., G. F. Carey, and J. T. Oden, *Finite Elements: An Introduction,* Prentice-Hall, 1981.
- Carey, G. F., and J. T. Oden, *Finite Elements: A Second Course,* Prentice-Hall, 1983.
- Cook, R. D., D. S. Malkus, and M. E. Plesha, *Concepts and Applications of Finite Element Analysis,* John Wiley & Sons, 1989.
- Hughes, T. J. R., *The Finite Element Method*, Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1987.
- Zienkiewicz, O. C., and R. L. Taylor, *The Finite Element Method: Volumes I, II, and III*, Butterworth-Heinemann, 2000.

**Performance of linear solid elements**

- Prathap, G., "The Poor Bending Response of the Four-Node Plane Stress Quadrilaterals," International Journal for Numerical Methods in Engineering, vol. 21, 825--835, 1985.

**Hourglass control in solid elements**

- Belytschko, T., W. K. Liu, and J. M. Kennedy, "Hourglass Control in Linear and Nonlinear Problems," Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering, vol. 43, 251--276, 1984.
- Flanagan, D. P., and T. Belytschko, "A Uniform Strain Hexahedron and Quadrilateral with Hourglass Control," International Journal for Numerical Methods in Engineering, vol. 17, 679--706, 1981.
- Puso, M. A., "A Highly Efficient Enhanced Assumed Strain Physically Stabilized Hexahedral Element," International Journal for Numerical Methods in Engineering, vol. 49, 1029--1064, 2000.

**Incompatible mode elements**

- Simo, J. C. and M. S. Rifai, "A Class of Assumed Strain Methods and the Method of Incompatible Modes," International Journal for Numerical Methods in Engineering, vol. 29, 1595--1638, 1990.




