# 6.7 Summary







- The behavior of beam elements can be determined by numerical integration of the section (either [*BEAM SECTION](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mbeamsection) or [*BEAM GENERAL SECTION](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mbeamgensect)) or can be given directly in terms of area, moments of inertia, and torsional constant ([*BEAM GENERAL SECTION](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mbeamgensect)).
- When [*BEAM GENERAL SECTION](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mbeamgensect) is used with numerical integration, the calculations are done once at the start of the simulation, and elastic behavior is assumed.
- Abaqus includes a number of standard cross-section shapes. Other shapes, provided they are "thin-walled," can be modeled using SECTION=ARBITRARY.
- The orientation of the cross-section must be defined either by specifying a third node or by defining a vector as part of the element property definition. The orientations can be plotted in Abaqus/Viewer.
- The beam cross-section can be offset from the nodes that define the beam. This procedure is useful in modeling stiffeners on shells.
- The linear and quadratic beams include the effects of shear deformation. The cubic beams in Abaqus/Standard do not account for shear flexibility. The open-section beam elements in Abaqus/Standard correctly model the effects of torsion and warping (including warping constraints) in thin-walled, open sections.
- Multi-point constraints, constraint equations, and connectors can be used to connect degrees of freedom at nodes to model pinned connections, rigid links, etc.
- "Bending moment"-type plots allow the results of one-dimensional elements, such as beams, to be visualized easily.
- Display options allow you to render beam profiles for enhanced graphical representations of undeformed and deformed plots.
- Hard copies of Abaqus/Viewer plots can be obtained in PostScript (PS), Encapsulated PostScript (EPS), Tag Image File Format (TIFF), Portable Network Graphics (PNG), and Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) formats.




