# 1.11.4 Continuum shells: basic element modes







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Element tested

SC8R

### Feature tested

The basic deformation modes of the continuum shell elements are verified.

### Problem description

A continuum shell element is loaded with displacement control into its basic deformation modes. The results are compared to equivalent modes obtained from S4R and C3D8R elements.

**Model: **

The model consists of SC8R, S4R, and C3D8R elements, each of dimensions 2  2  0.1.

**Mesh: **

Two types of meshes are provided. The mesh for the geometrically linear case consists of three elements: one SC8R, one S4R, and one C3D8R element. Each element is loaded in one of the basic deformation modes. There are 18 steps, each step representing a particular mode. For the geometrically nonlinear case we have 18 groups of SC8R, S4R, and C3D8R elements. Each group is loaded in a particular deformation mode in a single step.

**Material: **

Linear elastic, Young's modulus = 3000.0, Poisson's ratio = 0.0.

**Boundary conditions: **

Each element type is loaded in displacement control to one of the following pure deformation modes: membrane, bending, transverse shear, thickness, thickness gradient, and hourglass.

### Results and discussion

The strains, stresses, section strains, section forces, section thicknesses, and reaction forces for the continuum shell are verified with results obtained for the S4R and C3D8R elements for equivalent modes where applicable.

### Input files

[element_modes_sc8r.inp](../eif/element_modes_sc8r.inp)

Model for geometrically linear case.

[element_modes_sc8r_pert.inp](../eif/element_modes_sc8r_pert.inp)

Model for geometrically linear case using linear perturbation steps.

[element_modes_sc8r_nlgeom.inp](../eif/element_modes_sc8r_nlgeom.inp)

Model for geometrically nonlinear case.




