# 1.4.5 Cohesive element load verification







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

### Elements tested

COH3D8    COH3D6    COH2D4    COHAX4    COH3D8P    COH3D6P    COH2D4P    COHAX4P    

### Features tested

The following features are tested in this verification problem:
- Element-based distributed loading.
- Surface-based distributed loading.
- Thermal loading specified using predefined temperatures.

### Problem description

In this verification test all the nodes of each element are fixed, and the reaction forces generated at the nodes as a result of the load application are used to verify the element load calculations. In addition, the effect of thermal loading is verified by allowing each element to deform freely in the thickness direction with the change in temperature. The resulting thermal strains in the thickness direction are compared with the analytical results.

**Model: **

- COH3D8, COH3D6, COH3D8P, and COH3D6P: | Cubic dimensions | 7 7 7 | | --- | --- | | Thickness | Geometry | | Thickness direction | Global 2 | | Response | Continuum | | Centrifugal axis of rotation | (1, 0, 0) through (3.5, 1000, 3.5) | | Coriolis axis of rotation | (1, 0, 0) through origin | | Gravitational load vector | (0, 1, 0) |
- COH2D4 and COH2D4P: | Planar dimensions | 7 7 | | --- | --- | | Thickness | Geometry | | Thickness direction | Global 2 | | Response | Continuum | | Centrifugal axis of rotation | (1, 0, 0) through (3.5, 1000, 0.0) | | Coriolis axis of rotation | (0, 0, 1) through origin | | Gravitational load vector | (0, 1, 0) |
- COHAX4 and COHAX4P: | Planar dimensions | 10 10 | | --- | --- | | Thickness | Geometry | | Thickness direction | Global 1; Global 2 | | Response | Continuum | | Centrifugal axis of rotation | (0, 1, 0) through origin | | Gravitational load vector | (0, 1, 0) |

**Material: **

| Young's modulus | 3 106 |
| --- | --- |
| Poisson's ratio | 0.3 |
| Coefficient of thermal expansion | 0.0001 |
| Density | 10.0 |

**Initial conditions: **

| Initial temperature | ALL, 0.0 |
| --- | --- |

### Results and discussion

The calculated reactions are in agreement with the applied loads. In addition, the thermal stresses and strains in the thickness direction match the analytical results for the case of thermal loading.

### Input files

##### **Abaqus/Standard input files**

[coh3d8_loads_std.inp](../eif/coh3d8_loads_std.inp)

BX, BY, BZ, GRAV, CENT, CENTRIF, ROTA, P1, P2, P3, P4, P5, P6, P, [*TEMPERATURE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-htemperature) for COH3D8.

[coh3d6_loads_std.inp](../eif/coh3d6_loads_std.inp)

BX, BY, BZ, GRAV, CENT, CENTRIF, ROTA, P1, P2, P3, P4, P5, P6, P, [*TEMPERATURE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-htemperature) for COH3D6.

[coh2d4_loads_std.inp](../eif/coh2d4_loads_std.inp)

BX, BY, GRAV, CENT, CENTRIF, ROTA, P1, P2, P3, P4, P, [*TEMPERATURE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-htemperature) for COH2D4.

[cohax4_loads_std.inp](../eif/cohax4_loads_std.inp)

BR, BZ, GRAV, CENT, CENTRIF, P1, P2, P3, P4, P, [*TEMPERATURE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-htemperature) for COHAX4.

[coh3d8p_loads_std.inp](../eif/coh3d8p_loads_std.inp)

BX, BY, BZ, GRAV, CENT, CENTRIF, ROTA, P1, P2, P3, P4, P5, P6, P, [*TEMPERATURE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-htemperature) for COH3D8P.

[coh3d6p_loads_std.inp](../eif/coh3d6p_loads_std.inp)

BX, BY, BZ, GRAV, CENT, CENTRIF, ROTA, P1, P2, P3, P4, P5, P6, P, [*TEMPERATURE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-htemperature) for COH3D6P.

[coh2d4p_loads_std.inp](../eif/coh2d4p_loads_std.inp)

BX, BY, GRAV, CENT, CENTRIF, ROTA, P1, P2, P3, P4, P, [*TEMPERATURE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-htemperature) for COH2D4P.

[cohax4p_loads_std.inp](../eif/cohax4p_loads_std.inp)

BR, BZ, GRAV, CENT, CENTRIF, P1, P2, P3, P4, P, [*TEMPERATURE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-htemperature) for COHAX4P.

[coh_corioload.inp](../eif/coh_corioload.inp)

CORIO for COH3D8, COH3D6, and COH2D4.

[cohp_corioload.inp](../eif/cohp_corioload.inp)

CORIO for COH3D8P, COH3D6P, and COH2D4P.

##### **Abaqus/Explicit input files**

[coh_bf_grav_xpl.inp](../eif/coh_bf_grav_xpl.inp)

BX, BR, BY, BZ, GRAV for COH3D8, COH3D6, COH2D4, and COHAX4.

[coh_p_vp_xpl.inp](../eif/coh_p_vp_xpl.inp)

P1, P2, P3, P, VP1, VP2, VP3, VP4, VP for COH3D8, COH3D6, COH2D4, and COHAX4.

[coh_thermal_xpl.inp](../eif/coh_thermal_xpl.inp)

[*TEMPERATURE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-htemperature) for COH3D8, COH3D6, COH2D4, and COHAX4.




