# 1.6.17 Contact with initial overclosure of curved surfaces







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

### Elements tested

C3D8    C3D8R    CPS4    CPS4R    

### Features tested

Contact damping

Contact pair

Modified contact pressure-overclosure relationship

### Problem description

The model consists of two concentric rings with a small initial overclosure. In Abaqus/Standard the initial overclosure is resolved during a static step. In Abaqus/Explicit the initial overclosure is resolved during the first step of a dynamic simulation.

The two-dimensional model consists of two 16-element rings, and the three-dimensional model consists of two 32-element rings. The elements of the inner and outer rings are perfectly aligned.

**Material: **

| Young's modulus | 206800 |
| --- | --- |
| Poisson's ratio | 0.32 |
| Density | 8.01 106 |
| Interface friction coefficient | 0.0 |

### Results and discussion

The interference is resolved for models using hard contact. In the case of softened contact the interference is reduced until equilibrium is reached; any residual overclosure at the end of the step can be reduced by increasing the stiffness of the pressure-overclosure relationship.

### Input files

##### **Abaqus/Standard input files**

[ei24siso.inp](../eif/ei24siso.inp)

CPS4 elements, small-sliding.

[ei24siso_surf.inp](../eif/ei24siso_surf.inp)

CPS4 elements, small-sliding, surface-to-surface constraint enforcement method.

[ei24ssso.inp](../eif/ei24ssso.inp)

CPS4 elements, finite-sliding, [*CONTACT INTERFERENCE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hcontactinterfer) with SHRINK.

[ei38siso.inp](../eif/ei38siso.inp)

C3D8 elements, small-sliding.

[ei38siso_surf.inp](../eif/ei38siso_surf.inp)

C3D8 elements, small-sliding, surface-to-surface constraint enforcement method.

[ei34sfso.inp](../eif/ei34sfso.inp)

C3D8 elements, finite-sliding.

[ei34sfso_1.inp](../eif/ei34sfso_1.inp)

C3D8 elements, finite-sliding with HCRIT and SMOOTH parameters.

[ei34sfso_2.inp](../eif/ei34sfso_2.inp)

C3D8 elements, finite-sliding, [*SURFACE BEHAVIOR](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsurfacebehavior) with NO SEPARATION.

[ei34sfso_3.inp](../eif/ei34sfso_3.inp)

C3D8 elements, finite-sliding, [*SURFACE BEHAVIOR](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsurfacebehavior) with PRESSURE-OVERCLOSURE=EXPONENTIAL.

[ei34sfso_4.inp](../eif/ei34sfso_4.inp)

C3D8 elements, finite-sliding, [*SURFACE BEHAVIOR](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsurfacebehavior) with PRESSURE-OVERCLOSURE=TABULAR.

[ei34sfso_5.inp](../eif/ei34sfso_5.inp)

C3D8 elements, finite-sliding, [*CONTACT DAMPING](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hcontactdamping) with DEFINITION=DAMPING COEFFICIENT.

##### **Abaqus/Explicit input files**

[interference2d_xpl_finite.inp](../eif/interference2d_xpl_finite.inp)

CPS4R elements, finite-sliding kinematic contact, [*SURFACE BEHAVIOR](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsurfacebehavior) with PRESSURE-OVERCLOSURE=TABULAR.

[interference2d_xpl_finite_pnlty.inp](../eif/interference2d_xpl_finite_pnlty.inp)

CPS4R elements, finite-sliding penalty contact, [*SURFACE BEHAVIOR](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsurfacebehavior) with PRESSURE-OVERCLOSURE=TABULAR.

[interference3d_xpl_finite.inp](../eif/interference3d_xpl_finite.inp)

C3D8R elements, finite-sliding kinematic contact, [*SURFACE BEHAVIOR](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsurfacebehavior) with PRESSURE-OVERCLOSURE=TABULAR.

[interference3d_xpl_finite_pnlty.inp](../eif/interference3d_xpl_finite_pnlty.inp)

C3D8R elements, finite-sliding penalty contact, [*SURFACE BEHAVIOR](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsurfacebehavior) with PRESSURE-OVERCLOSURE=TABULAR.

[interference3d_xpl_finite_c3d8.inp](../eif/interference3d_xpl_finite_c3d8.inp)

C3D8 elements, finite-sliding kinematic contact, [*SURFACE BEHAVIOR](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsurfacebehavior) with PRESSURE-OVERCLOSURE=TABULAR.

[interference3d_xpl_finite_pnlty_c3d8.inp](../eif/interference3d_xpl_finite_pnlty_c3d8.inp)

C3D8 elements, finite-sliding penalty contact, [*SURFACE BEHAVIOR](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsurfacebehavior) with PRESSURE-OVERCLOSURE=TABULAR.

[interference3d_xpl_nosep_cdf.inp](../eif/interference3d_xpl_nosep_cdf.inp)

C3D8R elements, finite-sliding kinematic contact, [*SURFACE BEHAVIOR](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsurfacebehavior) with PRESSURE-OVERCLOSURE=TABULAR and NO SEPARATION, [*CONTACT DAMPING](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hcontactdamping) with DEFINITION=CRITICAL DAMPING FRACTION.

[interference3d_xpl_nosep_dc.inp](../eif/interference3d_xpl_nosep_dc.inp)

C3D8R elements, finite-sliding kinematic contact, [*SURFACE BEHAVIOR](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsurfacebehavior) with PRESSURE-OVERCLOSURE=TABULAR and NO SEPARATION, [*CONTACT DAMPING](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hcontactdamping) with DEFINITION=DAMPING COEFFICIENT.

[interference3d_xpl_small.inp](../eif/interference3d_xpl_small.inp)

C3D8R elements, small-sliding kinematic contact, [*SURFACE BEHAVIOR](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsurfacebehavior) with PRESSURE-OVERCLOSURE=TABULAR.




