# 1.3.43 Gasket behavior verification







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

GKPE4    GKPE6    GKPS4    GKPS4N    GKPS6    GKPS6N    

GK2D2    GK2D2N    

GKAX4    GKAX4N    GKAX6    GKAX6N    

GK3D2    GK3D2N    GK3D4L    GK3D4LN    GK3D6    GK3D6L    GK3D6LN    GK3D6N    GK3D8    GK3D8N    GK3D12M    GK3D12MN    GK3D18    GK3D18N    

### Problem description

Gasket elements are used to model sealing components between structural members. They are designed primarily to provide appropriate pressure-closure behavior in the thickness direction, which is uncoupled from the transverse shear and membrane behavior. This uncoupled pressure-closure behavior is specified with the suboptions of the gasket behavior definition. These gasket behavior models are separate from the models in the material library. For some gasket behaviors that are not addressed readily by these special behavior models, such as coupled compression-membrane behaviors or through-thickness tensile behavior, Abaqus provides an alternative way for the user to model such behavior by specifying either a built-in or user-defined material model.

Gasket elements with all displacement degrees of freedom active at their nodes are used to model all three types of behavior (thickness-direction, membrane, and transverse shear). Elements that have only one displacement degree of freedom at their nodes consider the thickness-direction behavior only. Analyses are performed to verify that the generalized strains (displacements and strains) in the gaskets are obtained properly from the nodal displacements and that the generalized stresses (forces, forces per unit length, or stresses) are obtained properly from the generalized strains through the constitutive relations for the different types of behavior.

#### Behavior

The element tests included in this section cover three different types of model behavior in the thickness direction: elastic with damage, elastic-plastic with high initial stiffness so that yield occurs at the second data point given along the initial loading curve, and elastic-plastic with low initial stiffness so that initial yield occurs further along the initial loading curve. Rate-dependent (creep) effects through the thickness of the gasket may be added to the elastic-plastic model. These models are used with or without any initial gap. Thermal expansion is also considered along the thickness direction of the gasket with or without an initial void. The thickness-direction behavior is defined in terms of stress in most cases but is defined as force or force per unit length whenever it is appropriate for the element type.

Membrane behavior and transverse shear behavior are modeled as linear elastic. Thermal expansion is also considered for the membrane response.

Some tests involving viscoelastic effects (in the frequency domain) in conjunction with the elastic or elastic-damage models have also been included. These tests model the frequency-dependent stiffness and damping characteristics of gaskets for different levels  (as measured by closure) of preload. Only thickness-direction viscoelastic behavior is modeled in these cases.

Field expansion is also tested for a 2–node two-dimensional gasket.

#### Model

Each model contains a set of 1 to 4 gasket elements of the same type. The initial geometry may or may not be aligned with the global axes. When gasket elements with thickness-direction-only behavior are used, the model may also contain a rigid element that is used to control the loading of the gasket. The tests for the gasket elements using suboptions of the material model are elastic-plastic creep analyses. Corresponding solid elements are included in the tests to facilitate the comparison of solutions.

The material properties for the tests involving viscoelastic behavior include specification of storage and loss moduli as functions of excitation frequency and level of preload (closure).

#### Loading history

The different tests include compression along the thickness direction of the gasket, shearing of the top surface of the gasket with respect to its bottom surface (whenever possible), and uniform extension or compression of the gasket membrane. The tests are displacement- or load-controlled through direct control of the gasket element's nodes or through a contact pair that involves the gasket and a rigid component compressing the gasket. The tests also include thermal loading in the gasket membrane and/or gasket thickness direction.

The tests performed along the thickness direction of the gasket involve, in most cases, a series of loading and unloading steps to verify that the user-prescribed loading and unloading curves are followed properly and that interpolation between user-specified unloading curves is done correctly.

The tests involving the modeling of viscoelastic behavior consist of steady-state harmonic oscillations at different excitation frequencies about base states that involve different levels of closure. These tests are displacement controlled.

### Results and discussion

The results are obtained at the end of each step in terms of generalized stresses, generalized strains, reaction forces, and nodal displacements. The results obtained in each test match the results obtained by hand calculations.

### Input files

[ege4gcxx.inp](../eif/ege4gcxx.inp)

GKPE4 elements, quasi-static analysis with creep.

#### Linear perturbation analysis:

[eg22nlxp.inp](../eif/eg22nlxp.inp)

GK2D2N elements, perturbation step with [*LOAD CASE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hloadcase).

[egs4gdxp.inp](../eif/egs4gdxp.inp)

GKPS4 elements, perturbation step with [*LOAD CASE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hloadcase).

#### Generation of missing nodes:

[eg3rgdxm.inp](../eif/eg3rgdxm.inp)

GK3D18 elements.

[eg3rndxm.inp](../eif/eg3rndxm.inp)

GK3D18N elements, elastic with damage.

[eg3rnhxm.inp](../eif/eg3rnhxm.inp)

GK3D18N elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

#### Dependency on field variable and temperature:

[ega4glxv.inp](../eif/ega4glxv.inp)

GKAX4 elements.

[ega6glxv.inp](../eif/ega6glxv.inp)

GKAX6 elements.

[ega6nhxv.inp](../eif/ega6nhxv.inp)

GKAX6N elements.

[egl4glxv.inp](../eif/egl4glxv.inp)

GK3D4L elements.

[egl4nhxv.inp](../eif/egl4nhxv.inp)

GK3D4LN elements.

[egl6ghxv.inp](../eif/egl6ghxv.inp)

GK3D6L elements.

[egl6nhxv.inp](../eif/egl6nhxv.inp)

GK3D6LN elements.

#### Solid element numbering:

[eg3agdxs.inp](../eif/eg3agdxs.inp)

GK3D12M elements.

[eg3rgdxs.inp](../eif/eg3rgdxs.inp)

GK3D18 elements.

[egs4gdxs.inp](../eif/egs4gdxs.inp)

GKPS4 elements.

[egs6gdxs.inp](../eif/egs6gdxs.inp)

GKPS6 elements.

#### User subroutine [`UVARM`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uvarm):

[ega4glxu.inp](../eif/ega4glxu.inp)

GKAX4 elements.

[ega4glxu.f](../eif/ega4glxu.f)

User subroutine [`UVARM`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uvarm) used in ega4glxu.inp.

[ega6nhxu.inp](../eif/ega6nhxu.inp)

GKAX6N elements.

[ega6nhxu.f](../eif/ega6nhxu.f)

User subroutine [`UVARM`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uvarm) used in ega6nhxu.inp.

[egl4glxu.inp](../eif/egl4glxu.inp)

GK3D4L elements.

[egl4glxu.f](../eif/egl4glxu.f)

User subroutine [`UVARM`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uvarm) used in egl4glxu.inp.

[egl6ghxu.inp](../eif/egl6ghxu.inp)

GK3D6L elements.

[egl6ghxu.f](../eif/egl6ghxu.f)

User subroutine [`UVARM`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uvarm) used in egl6ghxu.inp.

#### Yield option:

[ega4glxy.inp](../eif/ega4glxy.inp)

GKAX4 elements.

[ega4nhxy.inp](../eif/ega4nhxy.inp)

GKAX4N elements.

[ega6glxy.inp](../eif/ega6glxy.inp)

GKAX6 elements.

[ega6nhxy.inp](../eif/ega6nhxy.inp)

GKAX6N elements.

[egl4glxy.inp](../eif/egl4glxy.inp)

GK3D4L elements.

[egl4nhxy.inp](../eif/egl4nhxy.inp)

GK3D4LN elements.

[egl6ghxy.inp](../eif/egl6ghxy.inp)

GK3D6L elements.

[egl6nhxy.inp](../eif/egl6nhxy.inp)

GK3D6LN elements.

#### Slope drop option:

[eg22gcxz.inp](../eif/eg22gcxz.inp)

GK2D2 elements, elastic-plastic with creep.

[eg22gdxz.inp](../eif/eg22gdxz.inp)

GK2D2 elements, elastic with damage.

[eg36gcxz.inp](../eif/eg36gcxz.inp)

GK3D6 elements, elastic-plastic with creep.

[eg36gdxz.inp](../eif/eg36gdxz.inp)

GK3D6 elements, elastic with damage.

[ega2gcxz.inp](../eif/ega2gcxz.inp)

GKAX2 elements, elastic-plastic with creep.

[ega4glxz.inp](../eif/ega4glxz.inp)

GKAX4 elements, elastic-plastic (low initial stiffness).

[ega4nhxz.inp](../eif/ega4nhxz.inp)

GKAX4N elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

[ega6glxz.inp](../eif/ega6glxz.inp)

GKAX6 elements, elastic-plastic (low initial stiffness).

[ega6nhxz.inp](../eif/ega6nhxz.inp)

GKAX6N elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

[ege4gdxz.inp](../eif/ege4gdxz.inp)

GKPE4 elements, elastic with damage.

[egl4gcxz.inp](../eif/egl4gcxz.inp)

GK3D4L elements, elastic-plastic with creep.

[egl4gdxz.inp](../eif/egl4gdxz.inp)

GK3D4L elements, elastic with damage.

[egl4glxz.inp](../eif/egl4glxz.inp)

GK3D4L elements, elastic-plastic (low initial stiffness).

[egl4nhxz.inp](../eif/egl4nhxz.inp)

GK3D4LN elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

[egl6ghxz.inp](../eif/egl6ghxz.inp)

GK3D6L elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

[egl6nhxz.inp](../eif/egl6nhxz.inp)

GK3D6LN elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

#### Static analysis with load control:

[eg32gdxl.inp](../eif/eg32gdxl.inp)

GK3D2 elements, elastic with damage.

[eg32glxl.inp](../eif/eg32glxl.inp)

GK3D2 elements, elastic-plastic (low initial stiffness).

[eg38gdxl.inp](../eif/eg38gdxl.inp)

GK3D8 elements, elastic with damage.

[eg38ghxl.inp](../eif/eg38ghxl.inp)

GK3D8 elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

[eg3rgdxl.inp](../eif/eg3rgdxl.inp)

GK3D18 elements, elastic with damage.

[eg3rghxl.inp](../eif/eg3rghxl.inp)

GK3D18 elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

[ega4gdxl.inp](../eif/ega4gdxl.inp)

GKAX4 elements, elastic with damage.

[ega4glxl.inp](../eif/ega4glxl.inp)

GKAX4 elements, elastic-plastic (low initial stiffness).

[ege4gdxl.inp](../eif/ege4gdxl.inp)

GKPE4 elements, elastic with damage.

[ege4ghxl.inp](../eif/ege4ghxl.inp)

GKPE4 elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

[egl6gdxl.inp](../eif/egl6gdxl.inp)

GK3D6L elements, elastic with damage.

[egl6ghxl.inp](../eif/egl6ghxl.inp)

GK3D6L elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

[egs4gdxl.inp](../eif/egs4gdxl.inp)

GKPS4 elements, elastic with damage.

[egs4ghxl.inp](../eif/egs4ghxl.inp)

GKPS4 elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

#### Static analysis with displacement control:

[eg22gdxd.inp](../eif/eg22gdxd.inp)

GK2D2 elements, elastic with damage.

[eg22glxd.inp](../eif/eg22glxd.inp)

GK2D2 elements, elastic-plastic (low initial stiffness).

[eg36gdxd.inp](../eif/eg36gdxd.inp)

GK3D6 elements, elastic with damage.

[eg36glxd.inp](../eif/eg36glxd.inp)

GK3D6 elements, elastic-plastic (low initial stiffness).

[eg3agdxd.inp](../eif/eg3agdxd.inp)

GK3D12M elements, elastic with damage.

[eg3aglxd.inp](../eif/eg3aglxd.inp)

GK3D12M elements, elastic-plastic (low initial stiffness).

[ega6gdxd.inp](../eif/ega6gdxd.inp)

GKAX6 elements, elastic with damage.

[ega6glxd.inp](../eif/ega6glxd.inp)

GKAX6 elements, elastic-plastic (low initial stiffness).

[ege6gdxd.inp](../eif/ege6gdxd.inp)

GKPE6 elements, elastic with damage.

[ege6ghxd.inp](../eif/ege6ghxd.inp)

GKPE6 elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

[egl4gdxd.inp](../eif/egl4gdxd.inp)

GK3D4L elements, elastic with damage.

[egl4glxd.inp](../eif/egl4glxd.inp)

GK3D4L elements, elastic-plastic (low initial stiffness).

[egs6gdxd.inp](../eif/egs6gdxd.inp)

GKPS6 elements, elastic with damage.

[egs6glxd.inp](../eif/egs6glxd.inp)

GKPS6 elements, elastic-plastic (low initial stiffness).

#### Static analysis with load control enforced through a contact pair:

[eg24ndxk.inp](../eif/eg24ndxk.inp)

GKPS4N elements, elastic with damage.

[eg24nhxk.inp](../eif/eg24nhxk.inp)

GKPS4N elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

[eg32ndxk.inp](../eif/eg32ndxk.inp)

GK3D2N elements, elastic with damage.

[eg32nhxk.inp](../eif/eg32nhxk.inp)

GK3D2N elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

[eg38ndxk.inp](../eif/eg38ndxk.inp)

GK3D8N elements, elastic with damage.

[eg38nhxk.inp](../eif/eg38nhxk.inp)

GK3D8N elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

[eg38nhxk_auglagr.inp](../eif/eg38nhxk_auglagr.inp)

GK3D8N elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness), augmented Lagrangian contact model.

[eg3rndxk.inp](../eif/eg3rndxk.inp)

GK3D18N elements, elastic with damage.

[eg3rnhxk.inp](../eif/eg3rnhxk.inp)

GK3D18N elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

[ega4ndxk.inp](../eif/ega4ndxk.inp)

GKAX4N elements, elastic with damage.

[ega4nhxk.inp](../eif/ega4nhxk.inp)

GKAX4N elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

[egl6ndxk.inp](../eif/egl6ndxk.inp)

GK3D6LN elements, elastic with damage.

[egl6nhxk.inp](../eif/egl6nhxk.inp)

GK3D6LN elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

#### Static analysis with displacement control enforced through a contact pair:

[eg22ndxc.inp](../eif/eg22ndxc.inp)

GK2D2N elements, elastic with damage.

[eg22nhxc.inp](../eif/eg22nhxc.inp)

GK2D2N elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

[eg26ndxc.inp](../eif/eg26ndxc.inp)

GKPS6N elements, elastic with damage.

[eg26nhxc.inp](../eif/eg26nhxc.inp)

GKPS6N elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

[eg36ndxc.inp](../eif/eg36ndxc.inp)

GK3D6N elements, elastic with damage.

[eg36nhxc.inp](../eif/eg36nhxc.inp)

GK3D6N elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

[eg3andxc.inp](../eif/eg3andxc.inp)

GK3D12MN elements, elastic with damage.

[eg3andxc_auglagr.inp](../eif/eg3andxc_auglagr.inp)

GK3D12MN elements, elastic with damage, augmented Lagrangian contact model.

[eg3anlxc.inp](../eif/eg3anlxc.inp)

GK3D12MN elements, elastic-plastic (low initial stiffness).

[eg3anlxc_auglagr.inp](../eif/eg3anlxc_auglagr.inp)

GK3D12MN elements, elastic-plastic (low initial stiffness), augmented Lagrangian contact model.

[ega6ndxc.inp](../eif/ega6ndxc.inp)

GKAX6N elements, elastic with damage.

[ega6nhxc.inp](../eif/ega6nhxc.inp)

GKAX6N elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

[egl4ndxc.inp](../eif/egl4ndxc.inp)

GK3D4LN elements, elastic with damage.

[egl4nhxc.inp](../eif/egl4nhxc.inp)

GK3D4LN elements, elastic-plastic (high initial stiffness).

#### Steady-state dynamic analysis with displacement control about different preloaded base states:

[gasket2d_visc1_str.inp](../eif/gasket2d_visc1_str.inp)

Two-dimensional gasket elements, elastic with damage and viscoelastic (defined in terms of storage and loss moduli ratios).

[gasket2d_visc2_str.inp](../eif/gasket2d_visc2_str.inp)

Two-dimensional gasket elements, elastic with damage and viscoelastic (defined directly in terms of storage and loss moduli).

[gasket3d_visc1_str.inp](../eif/gasket3d_visc1_str.inp)

Three-dimensional gasket elements, elastic with damage and viscoelastic (defined in terms of storage and loss moduli ratios).

[gasket3d_visc2_str.inp](../eif/gasket3d_visc2_str.inp)

Three-dimensional gasket elements, elastic with damage and viscoelastic (defined directly in terms of storage and loss moduli).

[gasketaxi_visc1_str.inp](../eif/gasketaxi_visc1_str.inp)

Axisymmetric gasket elements, elastic with damage and viscoelastic (defined in terms of storage and loss moduli ratios).

[gasketaxi_visc2_str.inp](../eif/gasketaxi_visc2_str.inp)

Axisymmetric gasket elements, elastic with damage and viscoelastic (defined directly in terms of storage and loss moduli).

[gasketline3d_visc1_force.inp](../eif/gasketline3d_visc1_force.inp)

Three-dimensional line gasket elements, elastic with damage and viscoelastic (defined in terms of storage and loss moduli ratios).

[gasketline3d_visc2_force.inp](../eif/gasketline3d_visc2_force.inp)

Three-dimensional line gasket elements, elastic with damage and viscoelastic (defined directly in terms of storage and loss moduli).

[gasketlink2d_visc1_force.inp](../eif/gasketlink2d_visc1_force.inp)

Two-dimensional link gasket elements, elastic with damage and viscoelastic (defined in terms of storage and loss moduli ratios).

[gasketlink2d_visc2_force.inp](../eif/gasketlink2d_visc2_force.inp)

Two-dimensional link gasket elements, elastic with damage and viscoelastic (defined directly in terms of storage and loss moduli).

[gasketlink3d_visc1_force.inp](../eif/gasketlink3d_visc1_force.inp)

Three-dimensional link gasket elements, elastic with damage and viscoelastic (defined in terms of storage and loss moduli ratios).

[gasketlink3d_visc2_force.inp](../eif/gasketlink3d_visc2_force.inp)

Three-dimensional link gasket elements, elastic with damage and viscoelastic (defined directly in terms of storage and loss moduli).

[gasketlinkaxi_visc1_force.inp](../eif/gasketlinkaxi_visc1_force.inp)

Axisymmetric link gasket elements, elastic with damage and viscoelastic (defined in terms of storage and loss moduli ratios).

[gasketlinkaxi_visc2_force.inp](../eif/gasketlinkaxi_visc2_force.inp)

Axisymmetric link gasket elements, elastic with damage and viscoelastic (defined directly in terms of storage and loss moduli).

#### Field expansion test:

[fieldexp-gasket.inp](../eif/fieldexp-gasket.inp)

Fully constrained GK2D2 element including field expansion in the thickness-direction behavior. The field expansion is driven by two different field variables. Both general static and linear perturbation steps are tested.




