# 1.6.29 General contact in Abaqus/Standard







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

S3    S4R    C3D4    C3D8    C3D8R    CAX4R    CPE4H    CPE8H    GK3D6    

### Feature tested

General contact formulation in Abaqus/Standard.

### Problem description

This section deals with the general contact capability in Abaqus/Standard, which uses the finite-sliding, surface-to-surface contact formulation. These examples utilize different type of elements and test different features used in general contact.

### Results and discussion

These results illustrate the accuracy of the general contact formulation in Abaqus/Standard.

### Input files

#### Examples for contact initialization assignment:

[gcontact_shell_op1.inp](../eif/gcontact_shell_op1.inp)

Shells with S4R and S3 elements with initial opening: default behavior.

[gcontact_shell_op2.inp](../eif/gcontact_shell_op2.inp)

Shells with S4R and S3 elements with initial opening: resolve opening.

[gcontact_shell_op3.inp](../eif/gcontact_shell_op3.inp)

Shells with S4R and S3 elements with initial opening: remain open.

[gcontact_shell_op_ss4.inp](../eif/gcontact_shell_op_ss4.inp)

Shells with S4R and S3 elements with initial opening and single-sided surface: resolve opening.

[gcontact_shell_op_ss5.inp](../eif/gcontact_shell_op_ss5.inp)

Shells with S4R and S3 elements with initial opening and single-sided surface: remain open.

[gcontact_shell_op_ssSPOS6.inp](../eif/gcontact_shell_op_ssSPOS6.inp)

Shells with S4R and S3 elements with initial opening and single-sided surfaces 2 and 4 (SPOS).

[gcontact_shell_op_ssSPOS7.inp](../eif/gcontact_shell_op_ssSPOS7.inp)

Shells with S4R and S3 elements with initial opening and single-sided surfaces 1 and 6 (SPOS).

[gcontact_shell_op_ssSPOS8.inp](../eif/gcontact_shell_op_ssSPOS8.inp)

Shells with S4R and S3 elements with initial opening and single-sided surfaces SPOS (all surfaces).

[gcontact_shell_ov9.inp](../eif/gcontact_shell_ov9.inp)

Shells with S4R and S3 elements with initial overclosure: default behavior.

[gcontact_shell_ov10.inp](../eif/gcontact_shell_ov10.inp)

Shells with S4R and S3 elements with initial overclosure: retain overclosure.

[gcontact_shell_ov11.inp](../eif/gcontact_shell_ov11.inp)

Shells with S4R and S3 elements with initial overclosure: resolve overclosure.

[gcontact_cross-shell_def12.inp](../eif/gcontact_cross-shell_def12.inp)

Cross shells with S4R elements: default behavior.

[gcontact_cross-shell_ss13.inp](../eif/gcontact_cross-shell_ss13.inp)

Cross shells with S4R elements: single-sided surface.

[gcontact_solid_op14.inp](../eif/gcontact_solid_op14.inp)

C3D8R elements with initial opening: default behavior.

[gcontact_solid_op15.inp](../eif/gcontact_solid_op15.inp)

C3D8R elements with initial opening: resolve opening.

[gcontact_solid_op16.inp](../eif/gcontact_solid_op16.inp)

C3D8R elements with initial opening: remain open.

[gcontact_solid_op17.inp](../eif/gcontact_solid_op17.inp)

C3D8R elements with initial opening and single-sided surface: resolve opening.

[gcontact_solid_op18.inp](../eif/gcontact_solid_op18.inp)

C3D8R elements with initial opening and single-sided surface: remain open.

[gcontact_solid_ov19.inp](../eif/gcontact_solid_ov19.inp)

C3D8R elements with initial overclosure: default behavior.

[gcontact_solid_ov20.inp](../eif/gcontact_solid_ov20.inp)

C3D8R elements with initial overclosure: retain overclosure.

[gcontact_solid_ov21.inp](../eif/gcontact_solid_ov21.inp)

C3D8R elements with initial overclosure: resolve overclosure.

#### Examples of surface smoothing technique for general contact:

[surfsmooth_rings_gcont.inp](../eif/surfsmooth_rings_gcont.inp)

Shrink fit of two concentric rings, two-dimensional.

[surfsmooth_rings_3d_gcont.inp](../eif/surfsmooth_rings_3d_gcont.inp)

Shrink fit of two concentric rings, three-dimensional.

[surfsmooth_spheres_gcont.inp](../eif/surfsmooth_spheres_gcont.inp)

Shrink fit of two concentric spheres.

[surfsmooth_cone_gcont.inp](../eif/surfsmooth_cone_gcont.inp)

Push down of an inner cone piece against an outer cone piece.

#### Example of edge-to-surface contact:

[slide_under_edge.inp](../eif/slide_under_edge.inp)

Sliding blocks with feature edges activated.

[tennis_std_gcont.inp](../eif/tennis_std_gcont.inp)

Tennis ball hitting bracket modeled with beam-to-surface contact.

#### Miscellaneous:

[block_c3d4_b_std_gcont.inp](../eif/block_c3d4_b_std_gcont.inp)

C3D4 elements using general contact and the unsymmetric solver to handle additional compression.

[block_c3d8_b_gcont.inp](../eif/block_c3d8_b_gcont.inp)

C3D8 elements using general contact and the unsymmetric solver to handle additional compression.

[boltpipeflange_3d_gk3d18_gcont.inp](../eif/boltpipeflange_3d_gk3d18_gcont.inp)

Three-dimensional analysis using general contact formulation containing a gasket modeled with gasket elements. 

[gasket_surf_gcont.inp](../eif/gasket_surf_gcont.inp)

GK3D6 elements contacting a slider using general contact

[rollcyl_test_gcont.inp](../eif/rollcyl_test_gcont.inp)

Paper rolling model using general contact formulation.

[slider_cpe4h_gcont.inp](../eif/slider_cpe4h_gcont.inp)

CPE4H elements modeling a slider with general contact.

[slider_cpe8h_mpc_gcont.inp](../eif/slider_cpe8h_mpc_gcont.inp)

CPE8H  elements modeling a slider with general contact.

[sphere_finite_std_gcont_balanc.inp](../eif/sphere_finite_std_gcont_balanc.inp)

 Balanced master-slave formulation with general contact for the spherical indentation problem.

[sphere_finite_std_gcont_adj1.inp](../eif/sphere_finite_std_gcont_adj1.inp)

 Initial contact openings with strain-free adjustments for the spherical indentation problem.

[sphere_finite_std_gcont_adj2.inp](../eif/sphere_finite_std_gcont_adj2.inp)

 Initial contact overclosures with strain-free adjustments for the spherical indentation problem.




