# 1.6.6 Finite-sliding contact between a deformable body and a rigid surface







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

### Elements tested

B21    B22    B31    B32    

PIPE21    PIPE31    

C3D6    C3D8    C3D8P    C3D8RP    C3D10M    C3D10MH    C3D10MP    C3D10MPH    C3D27    

CAX4    CAX4RP    CAX6M    CAX6MH    CAX6MP    CAX8    

CGAX3    CGAX4    CGAX6    CGAX6M    CGAX8    

CPE4    CPE4P    CPE6M    CPE6MH    CPE6MP    CPE8    CPEG6M    CPEG6MH    

MCL6    MCL9    

### Feature tested

Contact pair

An element-based surface or a node-based surface on a deformable body, and a rigid surface

### Problem description

The Abaqus/Standard models consist of a solid or beam element that is resting on a rigid surface, or in the case of three-dimensional solid elements, a distance of one unit away from the rigid surface. In the latter case a displacement is applied in the first step to bring the body in contact with the rigid surface. Frictionless contact is assumed. With contact established, a downward pressure is applied on the deformable elements, resulting in contact pressures and stresses in the solid elements. Two pressure load steps are performed. The first step is a geometrically linear analysis, whereas the second step invokes geometric nonlinearity, which takes the increased contact area into account. The contact pressure (CPRESS) should balance the applied pressure load in both steps.

For axisymmetric elements with twist the test consists of five steps. Initially the solid element interferes with the rigid surface. This overclosure is removed in the first step, which is a nonlinear step. The next three steps are linear perturbation steps, wherein relative sliding and/or twisting is performed between the two contact surfaces. The following nonlinear step combines relative sliding and twisting between the two surfaces.

In the last three steps three linear perturbation analyses are conducted: a direct-solution steady-state dynamic analysis of the two bodies in contact subjected to a harmonic distributed loading, a natural frequency extraction analysis, and a subspace-based steady-state dynamic analysis.

For cylindrical membrane elements the models consist of two concentric cylinders. The deformable cylinder, which is meshed with cylindrical membrane elements, has a radius of one unit. The rigid cylinder, modeled using an analytical rigid surface, has a radius of 1.2 units. The tests consist of three steps. Initially the cylindrical membrane elements interfere with the rigid surface. This overclosure is removed in the first step, which is a linear step. The value of friction is changed in the second nonlinear step. In the final step relative sliding is performed between the two contact surfaces.

The Abaqus/Explicit model consists of a single beam element contacting an analytically rigid surface. The analysis has two steps. In the first step the contact is established, with a frictionless contact pair definition, using node-based surfaces on the deformable beam. In the next step the contact pair is redefined with friction, and the beam is made to slide over the analytically rigid surface. Consistent contact stresses are obtained for beam and pipe elements.

**Model: **

| Length of beams | 1.0 |
| --- | --- |
| 2D solid element dimensions | 5 5 |
| 3D solid element dimensions |  |

| C3D8 (contact node set) | contact area = 5 1 |
| --- | --- |
| C3D6 | irregular: contact area = 3 |
| C3D8 | irregular: contact area = 4 |
| C3D27 | contact area = 3 2 |

**Material: **

| Young's modulus | 30 106 |
| --- | --- |
| Poisson's ratio | 0.3 |

### Results and discussion

For tests with applied pressure, the contact pressure balances the applied downward pressure load on the deformable elements exactly.

### Input files

##### **Abaqus/Standard input files**

[ei22srsb.inp](../eif/ei22srsb.inp)

B21 elements.

[ei22srsb_surf.inp](../eif/ei22srsb_surf.inp)

B21 elements using surface-to-surface contact.

[ei23srsb.inp](../eif/ei23srsb.inp)

B22 elements.

[ei23srsb_surf.inp](../eif/ei23srsb_surf.inp)

B22 elements using surface-to-surface contact.

[eib2srsb.inp](../eif/eib2srsb.inp)

B31 elements.

[eib3srsb.inp](../eif/eib3srsb.inp)

B32 elements.

[ei33srsc.inp](../eif/ei33srsc.inp)

C3D6 elements.

[ei33srsc_surf.inp](../eif/ei33srsc_surf.inp)

C3D6 elements using surface-to-surface contact.

[ei34srsc.inp](../eif/ei34srsc.inp)

C3D8 elements.

[ei34srsc_surf.inp](../eif/ei34srsc_surf.inp)

C3D8 elements using surface-to-surface contact.

[eig1srsc.inp](../eif/eig1srsc.inp)

C3D8 elements, three-dimensional node-based surface.

[ei34srsp_surf.inp](../eif/ei34srsp_surf.inp)

C3D8P elements using surface-to-surface contact.

[ei34srsp_c3d8rp.inp](../eif/ei34srsp_c3d8rp.inp)

C3D8RP elements.

[ei39srsc_c3d10m.inp](../eif/ei39srsc_c3d10m.inp)

C3D10M elements.

[ei39srsc_c3d10mh.inp](../eif/ei39srsc_c3d10mh.inp)

C3D10MH elements.

[ei39srsc_c3d10mp.inp](../eif/ei39srsc_c3d10mp.inp)

C3D10MP elements.

[ei39srsc_c3d10mph.inp](../eif/ei39srsc_c3d10mph.inp)

C3D10MPH elements.

[ei39srsc.inp](../eif/ei39srsc.inp)

C3D27 elements.

[eia2srsa.inp](../eif/eia2srsa.inp)

CAX4 elements.

[eia2srsa_surf.inp](../eif/eia2srsa_surf.inp)

CAX4 elements using surface-to-surface contact.

[eia2srsa_cax4rp.inp](../eif/eia2srsa_cax4rp.inp)

CAX4RP elements.

[eia3srsa_cax6m.inp](../eif/eia3srsa_cax6m.inp)

CAX6M elements.

[eia3srsa_cax6mh.inp](../eif/eia3srsa_cax6mh.inp)

CAX6MH elements.

[eia3srsa_cax6mp.inp](../eif/eia3srsa_cax6mp.inp)

CAX6MP elements.

[eia3srsa.inp](../eif/eia3srsa.inp)

CAX8 elements.

[eia3srsa_surf.inp](../eif/eia3srsa_surf.inp)

CAX8 elements using surface-to-surface contact.

[eia3srsa_auglagr.inp](../eif/eia3srsa_auglagr.inp)

CAX8 elements.

[eia2srsg3.inp](../eif/eia2srsg3.inp)

CGAX3 elements.

[eia2srsg3_surf.inp](../eif/eia2srsg3_surf.inp)

CGAX3 elements using surface-to-surface contact.

[eia2srsg4.inp](../eif/eia2srsg4.inp)

CGAX4 elements.

[eia3srsg6.inp](../eif/eia3srsg6.inp)

CGAX6 elements.

[eia3srsg6_surf.inp](../eif/eia3srsg6_surf.inp)

CGAX6 elements using surface-to-surface contact.

[eia3srsgm6.inp](../eif/eia3srsgm6.inp)

CGAX6M elements.

[eia3srsgm6_surf.inp](../eif/eia3srsgm6_surf.inp)

CGAX6M elements using surface-to-surface contact.

[eia3srsg8.inp](../eif/eia3srsg8.inp)

CGAX8 elements.

[eia3srsg8_surf.inp](../eif/eia3srsg8_surf.inp)

CGAX8 elements using surface-to-surface contact.

[ei22srse.inp](../eif/ei22srse.inp)

CPE4 elements.

[eip1srse.inp](../eif/eip1srse.inp)

CPE4 elements, two-dimensional node-based surface.

[ei22srsp.inp](../eif/ei22srsp.inp)

CPE4P elements.

[ei23srse_cpe6m.inp](../eif/ei23srse_cpe6m.inp)

CPE6M elements.

[ei23srse_cpe6mh.inp](../eif/ei23srse_cpe6mh.inp)

CPE6MH elements.

[ei23srsp_cpe6mp.inp](../eif/ei23srsp_cpe6mp.inp)

CPE6MP elements.

[ei23srse.inp](../eif/ei23srse.inp)

CPE8 elements.

[ei23srse_surf.inp](../eif/ei23srse_surf.inp)

CPE8 elements using surface-to-surface contact.

[ei23srse_cpeg6m.inp](../eif/ei23srse_cpeg6m.inp)

CPEG6M elements.

[ei23srse_cpeg6mh.inp](../eif/ei23srse_cpeg6mh.inp)

CPEG6MH elements.

[ei36srsc_mcl6.inp](../eif/ei36srsc_mcl6.inp)

MCL6 elements.

[ei36srsc_mcl6_surf.inp](../eif/ei36srsc_mcl6_surf.inp)

MCL6 elements using surface-to-surface contact.

[ei39srsc_mcl9.inp](../eif/ei39srsc_mcl9.inp)

MCL9 elements.

[ei39srsc_mcl9_surf.inp](../eif/ei39srsc_mcl9_surf.inp)

MCL9 elements using surface-to-surface contact.

##### **Abaqus/Explicit input files**

[cpair_beam2d_xpl.inp](../eif/cpair_beam2d_xpl.inp)

B21 elements using contact pair in Abaqus/Explicit.

[cpair_beam3d_xpl.inp](../eif/cpair_beam3d_xpl.inp)

B31 elements using contact pair in Abaqus/Explicit.

[cpair_pipe2d_xpl.inp](../eif/cpair_pipe2d_xpl.inp)

PIPE21 elements using contact pair in Abaqus/Explicit.

[cpair_pipe3d_xpl.inp](../eif/cpair_pipe3d_xpl.inp)

PIPE31 elements using contact pair in Abaqus/Explicit.




