# 3.8.9 Surface element submodeling







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

SFM3D3    SFM3D4    SFM3D6    SFM3D8R    

### Features tested

The submodeling capability is applied to models with surface elements. The global input files use the models from the membrane patch tests described in ["Membrane patch test," Section 1.5.1](ch01s05abv69.md). The submodel input files model the right half of the global model with 16 SFM3D8 elements. The submodel driven nodes lie along the line parallel to the *y*-axis of the model. Static perturbation and static general procedures are tested. 

### Problem description

The global models' dimensions are the same as in the patch tests used in ["Membrane patch test," Section 1.5.1](ch01s05abv69.md). The nodal file requests have been changed to enable the interpolation for the driven variables' values or driven nodes' history amplitudes. There are three layers of rebar, which are oriented at 0, 45, and 90 from the *x*-axis, The material properties and dimensions of the rebar are as follows:

| Young's modulus | 1 106 |
| --- | --- |
| Poisson's ratio | 0.25 |
| Rebar area | 0.3 |
| Rebar spacing | 0.5 |

The submodel material properties are the same as the global model properties.

### Results and discussion

All driven variables are interpolated correctly from the global analysis. Since the prescribed displacement and/or concentrated force patterns are brought to their physical positions on the submodel, the stress fields do not match in both models.

### Input files

##### **Abaqus/Standard input files**

[pgx33sfs_std.inp](../eif/pgx33sfs_std.inp)

SFM3D3 elements; global analysis.

[psx38sf1_std.inp](../eif/psx38sf1_std.inp)

SFM3D8 elements; submodel analysis.

[pgx34sfs_std.inp](../eif/pgx34sfs_std.inp)

SFM3D4 elements; global analysis.

[psx38sf2_std.inp](../eif/psx38sf2_std.inp)

SFM3D8 elements; submodel analysis.

[pgx36sfs_std.inp](../eif/pgx36sfs_std.inp)

SFM3D6 elements; global analysis.

[psx38sf3_std.inp](../eif/psx38sf3_std.inp)

SFM3D8 elements; submodel analysis.

[pgx38srs_std.inp](../eif/pgx38srs_std.inp)

SFM3D8R elements; global analysis.

[psx38sf4_std.inp](../eif/psx38sf4_std.inp)

SFM3D8 elements; submodel analysis.




