# 3.14.4 Transferring results with general beam sections







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

### Elements tested

B21    B31    

### Problem description

The use of a general beam section to specify section properties for beam elements is verified in the following tests. A B21 and a B31 element are subjected to combined monotonically increasing loads. The analysis consists of a sequential transfer from Abaqus/Standard to Abaqus/Explicit and back to Abaqus/Standard. Nonlinear inelastic section behavior is defined by setting the nonlinear generalized cross section property and omitting the linear and elastic parameters from the options defining axial, bending, and torsional behavior of a general beam section.

The nonlinear inelastic axial, bending, and torsional behavior is defined by the following data lines:

| 0., 0. |
| --- |
| 2.E7, 0.001 |
| 2.5E7, 0.002 |
| 3.0E7, 0.003 |

### Results and discussion

The results of this analysis demonstrate that section properties specified with a general beam section definition are transferred correctly between Abaqus/Explicit and Abaqus/Standard.

### Input files

[sx_s_b21_gsp1.inp](../eif/sx_s_b21_gsp1.inp)

First Abaqus/Standard analysis with the B21 element.

[sx_x_b21_gsp.inp](../eif/sx_x_b21_gsp.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit analysis with the B21 element.

[xs_s_b21_gsp2.inp](../eif/xs_s_b21_gsp2.inp)

Second Abaqus/Standard analysis with the B21 element.

[sx_s_b31_gsp1.inp](../eif/sx_s_b31_gsp1.inp)

First Abaqus/Standard analysis with the B31 element.

[sx_x_b31_gsp.inp](../eif/sx_x_b31_gsp.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit analysis with the B31 element.

[xs_s_b31_gsp2.inp](../eif/xs_s_b31_gsp2.inp)

Second Abaqus/Standard analysis with the B31 element.




