# 3.14.20 Transferring results with parallel rheological framework







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

### Elements tested

CAX4H    CAX4R    CPE4H    CPE4R    C3D8R    

### Problem description

The verification tests in this section consist of one-element models that are subjected to uniaxial loads in a sequential import analysis. The material model is defined using the parallel rheological framework and consists of an elastic-plastic equilibrium network with Mullins effect and three nonlinear viscoelastic networks. The viscous response in the viscoelastic networks is modeled using the power law, strain hardening, and hyperbolic-sine creep models. Three different strain energy potentials, neo-Hookean, Ogden, and Arruda-Boyce, are considered. The results are transferred from the middle of the analysis and are allowed to continue in the import analysis.

### Results and discussion

The results demonstrate that the material models defined using the parallel rheological framework transferred successfully between Abaqus analyses.

### Input files

#### Transferring results from Abaqus/Standard to Abaqus/Standard:

[ss_prf_base.inp](../eif/ss_prf_base.inp)

Abaqus/Standard analysis, viscoelastic-plastic material with three networks.

[ss_prf_import_ny.inp](../eif/ss_prf_import_ny.inp)

Abaqus/Standard import analysis, UPDATE=NO, STATE=YES.

[ss_prf_import_yy.inp](../eif/ss_prf_import_yy.inp)

Abaqus/Standard import analysis, UPDATE=YES, STATE=YES.

[ss_prf_import_yn.inp](../eif/ss_prf_import_yn.inp)

Abaqus/Standard import analysis, UPDATE=YES, STATE=NO.

#### Transferring results from Abaqus/Standard to Abaqus/Explicit:

[sx_prf_base.inp](../eif/sx_prf_base.inp)

Abaqus/Standard analysis, viscoelastic-plastic material with three networks.

[sx_prf_import_ny.inp](../eif/sx_prf_import_ny.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit import analysis, UPDATE=NO, STATE=YES.

[sx_prf_import_yy.inp](../eif/sx_prf_import_yy.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit import analysis, UPDATE=YES, STATE=YES.

[sx_prf_import_yn.inp](../eif/sx_prf_import_yn.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit import analysis, UPDATE=YES, STATE=NO.

#### Transferring results from Abaqus/Explicit to Abaqus/Explicit:

[xx_prf_base.inp](../eif/xx_prf_base.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit analysis, viscoelastic-plastic material with three networks.

[xx_prf_import_ny.inp](../eif/xx_prf_import_ny.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit import analysis, UPDATE=NO, STATE=YES.

[xx_prf_import_yy.inp](../eif/xx_prf_import_yy.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit import analysis, UPDATE=YES, STATE=YES.

[xx_prf_import_yn.inp](../eif/xx_prf_import_yn.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit import analysis, UPDATE=YES, STATE=NO.

#### Transferring results from Abaqus/Explicit to Abaqus/Standard:

[xs_prf_base.inp](../eif/xs_prf_base.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit analysis, viscoelastic-plastic material with three networks.

[xs_prf_import_ny.inp](../eif/xs_prf_import_ny.inp)

Abaqus/Standard import analysis, UPDATE=NO, STATE=YES.

[xs_prf_import_yy.inp](../eif/xs_prf_import_yy.inp)

Abaqus/Standard import analysis, UPDATE=YES, STATE=YES.

[xs_prf_import_yn.inp](../eif/xs_prf_import_yn.inp)

Abaqus/Standard import analysis, UPDATE=YES, STATE=NO.




