# 3.8.16 Gasket submodeling







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

GKPS4    GKPE4    GKAX4    GK3D8    GK3D6    

### Features tested

The submodeling capability is applied to gasket elements. The general static procedure is used for both the global and submodel analyses.

### Problem description

**Model: **

All global models consist of a rectangular gasket, with a length of 3 and a thickness of 0.125. The three-dimensional models have a width of 1. The submodel input files model the right half of the global model. All nodes on the submodel are driven.

**Material: **

| Membrane elastic modulus | 68.7 103 |
| --- | --- |
| Transverse shear stiffness | 1.06 104 |
| Poisson's ratio | 0.3 |
| Thickness behavior | Pressure of 2.75 104 at a closure of 1 |

**Loading and boundary conditions: **

The gasket is loaded through contact with two rigid surfaces. The lower rigid surface is held fixed. The upper rigid surface is moved down and rotated to impart a spatially varying stress response in the gasket. Additional boundary conditions are applied to the gasket to suppress rigid body motion.

### Results and discussion

The submodel stress distribution is confirmed to agree with the global model.

### Input files

[submodelgasket_gk3d6_g.inp](../eif/submodelgasket_gk3d6_g.inp)

GK3D6 elements; global analysis.

[submodelgasket_gk3d8_s.inp](../eif/submodelgasket_gk3d8_s.inp)

GK3D8 elements; submodel analysis.

[submodelgasket_gk3d8_g.inp](../eif/submodelgasket_gk3d8_g.inp)

GK3D8 elements; global analysis.

[submodelgasket_gk3d6_s.inp](../eif/submodelgasket_gk3d6_s.inp)

GK3D6 elements; submodel analysis.

[submodelgasket_gkax4_g.inp](../eif/submodelgasket_gkax4_g.inp)

GKAX4 elements; global analysis.

[submodelgasket_gkax4_s.inp](../eif/submodelgasket_gkax4_s.inp)

GKAX4 elements; submodel analysis.

[submodelgasket_gkax4n_g.inp](../eif/submodelgasket_gkax4n_g.inp)

GKAX4N elements; global analysis.

[submodelgasket_gkax4_s_n.inp](../eif/submodelgasket_gkax4_s_n.inp)

GKAX4 elements; submodel analysis.

[submodelgasket_gkax4_solid_g.inp](../eif/submodelgasket_gkax4_solid_g.inp)

GKAX4 elements using solid element numbering; global analysis.

[submodelgasket_gkax4_s_solid.inp](../eif/submodelgasket_gkax4_s_solid.inp)

GKAX4 elements; submodel analysis.

[submodelgasket_gkpe4_g.inp](../eif/submodelgasket_gkpe4_g.inp)

GKPE4 elements; global analysis.

[submodelgasket_gkpe4_s.inp](../eif/submodelgasket_gkpe4_s.inp)

GKPE4 elements; submodel analysis.

[submodelgasket_gkps4_g.inp](../eif/submodelgasket_gkps4_g.inp)

GKPS4 elements; global analysis.

[submodelgasket_gkps4_s.inp](../eif/submodelgasket_gkps4_s.inp)

GKPS4 elements; submodel analysis.




