# 3.17.1 Meshed beam cross-sections: overview







The meshed beam cross-section capability allows for the description of a beam cross-section that is geometrically complex or composed of more than one material. The meshed cross-section modeling approach is intended for structures that are expected to respond like beams but do not permit the use of a predefined cross-section shape.

To use meshed beam cross-sections in a beam analysis, the beam cross-section is first meshed with two-dimensional warping elements. The meshed cross-section is used to numerically integrate the beam stiffness and inertia properties and to calculate the out-of-plane warping function in Abaqus/Standard. The two-dimensional Abaqus/Standard analysis writes the cross-sectional properties to an input-file-ready text file called `*jobname*.bsp`. This file is used to define the appropriate section stiffness and inertia data for a subsequent Abaqus/Standard or Abaqus/Explicit beam element analysis. The cross-section is pre-integrated and remains elastic throughout the analysis (beam general section). The generated beam cross-section properties include the axial, bending, torsional, and transverse shear stiffness; mass, rotary inertia, and damping properties; and the location of the centroid and shear center. In addition, the equivalent beam cross-section properties include information on stress recovery, such as the warping function and its derivatives. Once the beam element analysis is complete, the Visualization module of Abaqus/CAE can be used to visualize the results at preselected points along the beam length or to examine detailed stress and strain results in the two-dimensional meshed cross-section.

The verification tests that follow are divided into two sections. The first section contains analyses in which the cross-section properties for two-dimensional models of meshed cross-sections are obtained. The cross-section shapes include the standard beam sections that are available for use with beam elements, such as I-sections or rectangular sections, and nonstandard beam sections, such as C-sections and airfoil sections. The second section verifies the results obtained for beam analyses using an arbitrarily shaped solid general beam cross section meshed with warping elements by comparing them with the results obtained using a linear generalized cross section for a number of different procedure types.



