# 4.1.11 SDVINI







### 4.1.11 [`SDVINI`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-sdvini)

**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

B31    CPS4    GKPS4    

### Feature tested

User subroutine to define initial conditions for solution-dependent state variables.

### Problem description

Two test cases are included. The purpose of both tests is to show that the initial conditions of the solution-dependent state variables are interpreted correctly and to show that the solution-dependent state variables can be updated in another user subroutine.

In the first test case six solution-dependent state variables are initialized in user subroutine [`SDVINI`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-sdvini) and are subsequently updated in user subroutine [`UMAT`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-umat). The problem is a trivial linear elastic, static analysis of a single plane stress element. The analysis is repeated for a plane stress gasket element, and identical results are obtained.

In the second test case two solution-dependent state variables are initialized in user subroutine [`SDVINI`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-sdvini) and are subsequently updated in user subroutine [`FRIC`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-fric). The expected solution-dependent state variable settings are confirmed in the step-1, increment-1 call to [`FRIC`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-fric).

### Results and discussion

The solution-dependent state variables defined in [`SDVINI`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-sdvini) are made available properly in the other user subroutines.

### Input files

[usdvinix.inp](../eif/usdvinix.inp)

Input file for the [`UMAT`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-umat) analysis.

[usdvinix.f](../eif/usdvinix.f)

User subroutine [`SDVINI`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-sdvini) used in usdvinix.inp.

[usdvinifric.inp](../eif/usdvinifric.inp)

Input file for the [`FRIC`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-fric) analysis.

[usdvinifric.f](../eif/usdvinifric.f)

User subroutine [`SDVINI`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-sdvini) used in usdvinifric.inp.




