# 4.1.18 UGENS







### 4.1.18 [`UGENS`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-ugens)

**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

S8R    SAX2    SAXA22    

### Feature tested

User subroutine to define a shell section stiffness and right-hand side vector for various shell element types. The subroutine argument list is stored in an array reserved for solution-dependent state variables. This array is then written to the results file for verification.

### Problem description

To verify user subroutine [`UGENS`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-ugens), the data line input option is used to specify the shell section stiffness and thickness of the shell elements (passed into [`UGENS`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-ugens) via array `PROPS`). The general shell section stiffness is determined from a prior analysis along with a material reference from which Abaqus determines equivalent section properties.

**ugensbvr.inp**

This problem is discussed in detail in ["The barrel vault roof problem," Section 2.3.1 of the Abaqus Benchmarks Guide](../bmk/bmk-link.md#bmk-elm-barrelvault). A 4  4 mesh of S8R elements is used to model a deeply arched roof supported only by diaphragms at its curved edges. The first and second steps verify the response to thermal loading as perturbation and general steps, respectively. The coefficient of thermal expansion is taken as 1.0  106 at a reference temperature of 70. The structure is heated to 120 from an initial temperature of 70. The thermal properties, the section force, and the moment vectors, as well as the thermal loading, are all specified in user subroutine [`UGENS`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-ugens). In the third step a frequency extraction is performed to determine the eigenmodes of the structure. In the fourth step the structure is subjected to a body force in the vertical direction while the previously applied thermal loading is removed. The buckling loads are then determined in the fifth step.

**ugenscan.inp**

SAXA22 elements are used to model a cantilevered pipe loaded at its tip. This problem is discussed in detail in ["Cantilever beam analyzed with CAXA and SAXA elements," Section 2.1.3 of the Abaqus Benchmarks Guide](../bmk/bmk-link.md#bmk-elm-cantilevercaxasaxa).

**ugenspsx.inp**

A mesh of five SAX2 elements is used to model one-half of a hollow sphere subject to a point load applied in the radial direction. This problem is discussed in detail in ["The pinched sphere problem," Section 2.3.3 of the Abaqus Benchmarks Guide](../bmk/bmk-link.md#bmk-elm-pinchedsphere).

### Results and discussion

The verification consists of comparing results from the above models to those in a general shell section without user subroutine [`UGENS`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-ugens). In each case the results were identical. The values of the subroutine arguments are verified via the results file.

### Input files

[ugensbvr.inp](../eif/ugensbvr.inp)

["The barrel vault roof problem," Section 2.3.1 of the Abaqus Benchmarks Guide](../bmk/bmk-link.md#bmk-elm-barrelvault).

[ugensbvr.f](../eif/ugensbvr.f)

User subroutine [`UGENS`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-ugens) used in ugensbvr.inp.

[ugenscan.inp](../eif/ugenscan.inp)

["Cantilever beam analyzed with CAXA and SAXA elements," Section 2.1.3 of the Abaqus Benchmarks Guide](../bmk/bmk-link.md#bmk-elm-cantilevercaxasaxa).

[ugenscan.f](../eif/ugenscan.f)

User subroutine [`UGENS`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-ugens) used in ugenscan.inp.

[ugenspsx.inp](../eif/ugenspsx.inp)

["The pinched sphere problem," Section 2.3.3 of the Abaqus Benchmarks Guide](../bmk/bmk-link.md#bmk-elm-pinchedsphere).

[ugenspsx.f](../eif/ugenspsx.f)

User subroutine [`UGENS`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-ugens) used in ugenspsx.inp.




