# 4.1.10 RSURFU







### 4.1.10 [`RSURFU`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-rsurfu)

**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

CAX4    S4R    

### Features tested

User subroutine to define rigid surface geometry.

### Problem description

**ursurfux.inp**

This test verifies that user subroutine [`RSURFU`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-rsurfu) properly generates a three-dimensional rigid surface. The problem consists of forming an elastic sheet around a rigid cylinder. This problem will be compared to the test shown in ["Finite-sliding contact between a deformable body and a meshed rigid surface," Section 1.6.7](ch01s06abv85.md), which performs the identical analysis using a Bzier surface instead of a user-defined rigid surface.

The cylinder has a radius of 5 inches, and its displacements and rotations are restrained. The sheet has dimensions of 5 inches by 10 inches and is modeled with fifty 4-node S4R shell elements. It is assumed to be elastic with Young's modulus of 3  106 lb/in2 and Poisson's ratio of 0.3. The sheet is initially positioned tangent to the surface of the cylinder, with one edge fixed to the surface of the cylinder. A pressure load of 700 lb/in2 is applied to the surface of the sheet to form it around the circumference of the cylinder. All of the shell nodes are put into a contact node set with the exception of the nodes along the built-in edge. The contact node set is defined as the slave surface, and the user-defined rigid surface is defined as the master surface. No frictional behavior is included.

**ursurfu2.inp**

This test compares two models, one using an analytical rigid surface and the other using user subroutine [`RSURFU`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-rsurfu). A circular plate of radius 10 and thickness 1 is modeled using two-dimensional, axisymmetric CAX4 elements. The plate is assumed to be elastic with a Young's modulus of 3  105 and Poisson's ratio of 0.3. The displacements at the boundary of the plate are restrained. An axisymmetric rigid punch rests on one side of the plate. A load of 1.5  105 is applied to the punch to deform the plate.

**ursurfu3.inp**

This test compares two models, one using an analytical rigid surface and the other using user subroutine [`RSURFU`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-rsurfu). A 10  10 mesh of S4R shell elements is used to model a square plate. The displacements at the boundary of the plate are restrained. A rigid punch rests on one side of the plate. A load of 3  104 is applied to the punch to deform the plate.

### Results and discussion

The displacements of the deformed sheet in the first test are within 1% of the results from the Bzier rigid surface verification problem.

In the second and third tests the results of the models using the user subroutines are identical to those of the corresponding models with analytical rigid surfaces.

### Input files

[ursurfux.inp](../eif/ursurfux.inp)

Three-dimensional rigid surface compared to Bzier rigid surface.

[ursurfux.f](../eif/ursurfux.f)

User subroutine [`RSURFU`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-rsurfu) used in ursurfux.inp.

[ursurfu2.inp](../eif/ursurfu2.inp)

Two-dimensional axisymmetric rigid surface compared to analytical rigid surface.

[ursurfu2_surf.inp](../eif/ursurfu2_surf.inp)

Two-dimensional axisymmetric rigid surface compared to analytical rigid surface using surface-to-surface contact formulation.

[ursurfu2.f](../eif/ursurfu2.f)

User subroutine [`RSURFU`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-rsurfu) to be used with ursurfu2.inp.

[ursurfu2_surf.f](../eif/ursurfu2_surf.f)

User subroutine [`RSURFU`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-rsurfu) to be used with ursurfu2_surf.inp.

[ursurfu3.inp](../eif/ursurfu3.inp)

Three-dimensional rigid surface compared to analytical rigid surface.

[ursurfu3_surf.inp](../eif/ursurfu3_surf.inp)

Three-dimensional rigid surface compared to analytical rigid surface using the surface-to-surface contact formulation.

[ursurfu3.f](../eif/ursurfu3.f)

User subroutine [`RSURFU`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-rsurfu) to be used with ursurfu3.inp.

[ursurfu3_surf.f](../eif/ursurfu3_surf.f)

User subroutine [`RSURFU`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-rsurfu) to be used with ursurfu3_surf.inp.




