# 4.1.23 URDFIL







### 4.1.23 [`URDFIL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-urdfil)

**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

B21    C3D20P    CPE4R    CPE4RH    CPE4T    DC2D4    S3R    S8R5    

### Feature tested

User subroutine to allow reading of the results file at the end of any increment in an analysis.

### Problem description

This set of verification problems ensures that the subroutine [`URDFIL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-urdfil) is called properly for the various procedure types. In each problem the utility routine `POSFIL` is called from within [`URDFIL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-urdfil). Use is made of the `LSTOP` and `LOVRWRT` parameters such that the results file differs from that which would be produced by the same analysis without [`URDFIL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-urdfil).

### Results and discussion

The results file can be checked to ensure that [`URDFIL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-urdfil) and `POSFIL` are functioning correctly for the various procedures.

### Input files

[ufilcpl.inp](../eif/ufilcpl.inp)

Coupled temperature-displacement analysis.

[ufilcpl.f](../eif/ufilcpl.f)

User subroutine [`URDFIL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-urdfil) used in ufilcpl.inp.

[ufildyn.inp](../eif/ufildyn.inp)

Dynamic analysis.

[ufildyn.f](../eif/ufildyn.f)

User subroutine [`URDFIL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-urdfil) used in ufildyn.inp.

[ufilhtr.inp](../eif/ufilhtr.inp)

Heat transfer analysis.

[ufilhtr.f](../eif/ufilhtr.f)

User subroutine [`URDFIL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-urdfil) used in ufilhtr.inp.

[ufilmod.inp](../eif/ufilmod.inp)

Modal dynamic analysis.

[ufilmod.f](../eif/ufilmod.f)

User subroutine [`URDFIL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-urdfil) used in ufilmod.inp.

[ufilrre.inp](../eif/ufilrre.inp)

Random response analysis.

[ufilrre.f](../eif/ufilrre.f)

User subroutine [`URDFIL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-urdfil) used in ufilrre.inp.

[ufilrsp.inp](../eif/ufilrsp.inp)

Response spectrum analysis.

[ufilrsp.f](../eif/ufilrsp.f)

User subroutine [`URDFIL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-urdfil) used in ufilrsp.inp.

[ufilsoi.inp](../eif/ufilsoi.inp)

Soils consolidation analysis.

[ufilsoi.f](../eif/ufilsoi.f)

User subroutine [`URDFIL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-urdfil) used in ufilsoi.inp.

[ufilssd.inp](../eif/ufilssd.inp)

Steady-state dynamics analysis.

[ufilssd.f](../eif/ufilssd.f)

User subroutine [`URDFIL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-urdfil) used in ufilssd.inp.

[ufilsta.inp](../eif/ufilsta.inp)

Statics analysis.

[ufilsta.f](../eif/ufilsta.f)

User subroutine [`URDFIL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-urdfil) used in ufilsta.inp.

[ufilvis.inp](../eif/ufilvis.inp)

Visco analysis.

[ufilvis.f](../eif/ufilvis.f)

User subroutine [`URDFIL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-urdfil) used in ufilvis.inp.




