# 4.1.27 UWAVE and UEXTERNALDB







### 4.1.27 [`UWAVE`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uwave) and [`UEXTERNALDB`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uexternaldb)

**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Features tested

User subroutine [`UWAVE`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uwave) is used to specify wave kinematics for an Abaqus/Aqua analysis, and user subroutine [`UEXTERNALDB`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uexternaldb) is used to manipulate external user files in the same analysis.

### I. uwavexx1.inp

### Elements tested

B31    PIPE31    

### Problem description

Verification problem [uwavexx1.inp](../eif/uwavexx1.inp) is identical to [ep32pxx1.inp](../eif/ep32pxx1.inp) as described in ["Dynamic pressure, closed-end buoyancy loads" in "Aqua load cases," Section 3.12.1](ch03s12abv237.md#ver-prc-dynpressbuoy) of ["Aqua load cases," Section 3.12.1](ch03s12abv237.md). It tests the dynamic pressure implementation and closed-end buoyancy loading for Airy waves coded in user subroutine [`UWAVE`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uwave). In this problem a vertical pile is fully constrained and subjected to buoyancy loading. The Airy wave theory is used to calculate the total reaction force on the structure during a dynamic stress/displacement analysis by direct integration. Distributed load type PB is used with a 50-element (PIPE31) model, and concentrated load type TSB is used with a one-element (B31) model.

**Model: **

| Height of the structure | 175.0 (100.0 below and 75.0 above mean water elevation) |
| --- | --- |
| Pipe section data | *r* = 1.0, *t* = 0.25 |

**Material: **

| Young's modulus | 1 106 |
| --- | --- |

**Aqua – environment: **

| Seabed elevation | 100.0 |
| --- | --- |
| Mean water elevation | 1100.0 |
| Gravitational constant | 32.2 |
| Fluid mass density | 2.0 |

### Results and discussion

The results are identical to those calculated in [ep32pxx1.inp](../eif/ep32pxx1.inp) and agree well with the analytically determined peak total reaction force.

### Input files

[uwavexx1.inp](../eif/uwavexx1.inp)

Input file for this analysis.

[uwavexx1.f](../eif/uwavexx1.f)

User subroutine [`UWAVE`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uwave) used in uwavexx1.inp.

### II. uwavexx2.inp

### Element tested

B21

### Problem description

The input file for verification problem [uwavexx2.inp](../eif/uwavexx2.inp) is identical to file [riserdynamics_airy_disp.inp](../eif/riserdynamics_airy_disp.inp) used in ["Riser dynamics," Section 12.1.2 of the Abaqus Example Problems Guide](../exa/exa-link.md#exa-aqu-riserdynamics), except for the additional specification of gravity waves using user subroutine [`UWAVE`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uwave) and the output request for the nodal forces. The purpose of adding these items will be made clear in the problem description for [uwavexx3.inp](../eif/uwavexx3.inp) that follows. In this example a riser is modeled with 10 beam elements of type B21. The riser is subjected to self-weight, a top tension load, and drag loading caused by a steady current flowing by it. Waves with a peak-to-trough height of 6.1 m (20 ft) travel across the water surface with a period of 9 seconds; these waves are modeled with the Airy wave theory coded in user subroutine [`UWAVE`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uwave).

### Results and discussion

The results are identical to those calculated in the analysis using the built-in Airy wave option (file [riserdynamics_airy_disp.inp](../eif/riserdynamics_airy_disp.inp)), discussed in ["Riser dynamics," Section 12.1.2 of the Abaqus Example Problems Guide](../exa/exa-link.md#exa-aqu-riserdynamics).

### Input files

[uwavexx2.inp](../eif/uwavexx2.inp)

Input file for this analysis.

[uwavexx2.f](../eif/uwavexx2.f)

User subroutines [`UWAVE`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uwave) and [`DISP`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-disp) used in uwavexx2.inp.

### III. uwavexx3.inp

### Element tested

B21

### Problem description

This is a multipurpose verification problem for stochastic wave analysis with user subroutine [`UWAVE`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uwave). The first of the four objectives is to test the restart capability; accordingly, the job is set up to rerun the dynamic analysis (Step 2) in [uwavexx2.inp](../eif/uwavexx2.inp). The second objective is to exercise the coding for stochastic wave analysis, which is invoked with gravity waves using user subroutine [`UWAVE`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uwave). A random number seed and the wave spectrum (wave frequency/amplitude data pairs) can be specified. These data are optional; dummy values for the random number seed and the wave spectrum are specified here to verify that they are accessed correctly in subroutine [`UWAVE`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uwave) during the analysis.

For stochastic wave analysis an intermediate configuration is available to [`UWAVE`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uwave). This intermediate configuration can be used to store a user-chosen configuration upon which the wave kinematics are based. The third objective of this problem is to exercise the coding that performs the updating of the intermediate configuration. To this end, the [`UWAVE`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uwave) routine specifies that for the dynamic analysis (Step 2) a global update be performed for all elements at increments 1 and 141; and a local update be performed for a single element at 10-increment intervals, starting at increment 11 for element 1 and finishing at increment 101 for element 10. The local updates are requested sequentially for elements 1 through 10. For each global and local update request, the code updates the intermediate configuration with the current configuration for all the elements in the model and for the individual element, respectively. In this second step the updated intermediate configuration is stored in a common block array for manipulation in Step 3.

Step 3 is a dummy step used to overwrite the NFORC records with intermediate configuration information. When [`UWAVE`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uwave) is executed for this step, the intermediate configuration data stored in the common block are saved to an external file (`UWAVEXX3.017`) for subsequent postprocessing. To facilitate internal QA of the intermediate configuration data, the program `UWAVEXX5.f` is run to transfer the data from `UWAVEXX3.017 ` to `UWAVEXX3.fil` by overwriting the dummy NFORC  records created in Step 2. The resulting file, `UWAVEXX3.fin`, is then renamed to `UWAVEXX4.fil` to allow for data manipulation via accessing the NFORC records.

The last objective is to test the [`UEXTERNALDB`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uexternaldb) user subroutine interface. This subroutine can be used to manage user-defined external databases. When this subroutine is called at the beginning of the analysis, it allows for opening external user files and initialization of external user common blocks. When this subroutine is called at the end of the analysis, it allows for closing open external files. In this example the [`UEXTERNALDB`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uexternaldb) subroutine creates, opens, and writes to the file `UWAVEXX3.96` using FORTRAN unit 96. The dummy wave spectrum data are written to this file.

### Results and discussion

The dynamic analysis (Step 2) results obtained by the restart analysis are identical to those obtained in [uwavexx2.inp](../eif/uwavexx2.inp). The dummy NFORC records written to the `UWAVEXX3.fin` (or `UWAVEXX4.fil`) file are verified to contain the requested intermediate configurations. External user file manipulation in user subroutine [`UEXTERNALDB`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uexternaldb) is also exercised.

### Input files

[uwavexx3.inp](../eif/uwavexx3.inp)

Input file for this analysis.

[uwavexx3.f](../eif/uwavexx3.f)

User subroutines [`UWAVE`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uwave), [`DISP`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-disp), and [`UEXTERNALDB`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uexternaldb) used in uwavexx3.inp.




