# 4.1.6 GAPCON







### 4.1.6 [`GAPCON`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-gapcon)

**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

CPEG4T    C3D8T    DC3D8    DCC3D8    

### Feature tested

User subroutine to define gap conductance for interface elements that allow for heat transfer.

### Problem description

To verify user subroutine [`GAPCON`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-gapcon), the thermal interface properties verification tests of ["Thermal properties," Section 2.3.1](ch02s03abv172.md), are repeated using the user subroutine to specify gap conductance values. Results match for both methods of specifying gap conductance values. The tests are set up as cases of uniform one-dimensional heat flux using two- and three-dimensional elements. For the three-dimensional analyses, the temperature results are identical for all nodes located on a particular plane along the direction of heat flow. These include nodes 1–7 at plane *A*, nodes 101–107 at plane *B*, and nodes 201–207 at plane *C*. A steady-state heat transfer analysis is performed in several increments in all cases. Particular values (gap clearance, predefined field variables, etc.) vary during the solution, which in turn influence the conductivity across the interface and, thus, the solution. These values are passed into user subroutine [`GAPCON`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-gapcon) where an appropriate value of gap conduction is specified, thus affecting the temperature solution.

### Results and discussion

The results match the exact solutions.

### Input files

[ugapconcg.inp](../eif/ugapconcg.inp)

Clearance-dependent conductivity with CPEG4T elements.

[ugapconcs.inp](../eif/ugapconcs.inp)

Clearance-dependent conductivity with C3D8T elements.

[ugapconcs.f](../eif/ugapconcs.f)

User subroutine [`GAPCON`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-gapcon) used in ugapconcg.inp and ugapconcs.inp.

[ugapconfs.inp](../eif/ugapconfs.inp)

Field-variable-dependent conductivity with DC3D8 elements.

[ugapconfs.f](../eif/ugapconfs.f)

User subroutine [`GAPCON`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-gapcon) used in ugapconfs.inp.

[ugapconms.inp](../eif/ugapconms.inp)

Mass-flow-rate-dependent conductivity with DCC3D8 elements.

[ugapconms.f](../eif/ugapconms.f)

User subroutine [`GAPCON`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-gapcon) used in ugapconms.inp.

[ugapconpg.inp](../eif/ugapconpg.inp)

Pressure-dependent conductivity with CPEG4T elements.

[ugapconps.inp](../eif/ugapconps.inp)

Pressure-dependent conductivity with C3D8T elements.

[ugapconps.f](../eif/ugapconps.f)

User subroutine [`GAPCON`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-gapcon) used in ugapconpg.inp and ugapconps.inp.

[ugapconts.inp](../eif/ugapconts.inp)

Temperature-dependent conductivity with DC3D8 elements.

[ugapconts.f](../eif/ugapconts.f)

User subroutine [`GAPCON`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-gapcon) used in ugapconts.inp.




