# 4.1.15 UELMAT







### 4.1.15 [`UELMAT`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uelmat)

**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

**Warning:**User subroutine [`UELMAT`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uelmat) provides the user with a very general option to interface with the code. With any use of this subroutine interface, extensive verification should be done to make sure that the results are correct.

### I. Structural user element

### Element tested

User element.

### Feature tested

Accessing various Abaqus materials from a user element material point.

### Problem description

The finite element model for each test case consists of a single 4-node user element subjected to uniaxial deformation. The element corresponds to Abaqus element CPE4. Different Abaqus materials are accessed from user subroutine [`UELMAT`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uelmat) in each test.

### Results and discussion

The results agree with the results obtained using an identical model with Abaqus element CPE4 instead of the user element.

### Input files

[uelmat_linela_2d.inp](../eif/uelmat_linela_2d.inp)

Linearly elastic material.

[uelmat_cappla_2d.inp](../eif/uelmat_cappla_2d.inp)

Modified Drucker-Prager/Cap plasticity model.

[uelmat_creep_2d.inp](../eif/uelmat_creep_2d.inp)

Material with creep behavior.

[uelmat_druckerprager_2d.inp](../eif/uelmat_druckerprager_2d.inp)

Drucker-Prager plasticity model.

[uelmat_crushfoam_2d.inp](../eif/uelmat_crushfoam_2d.inp)

Crushable foam plasticity model.

[uelmat_hyperelas_neohook_2d.inp](../eif/uelmat_hyperelas_neohook_2d.inp)

Neo-Hookean hyperelastic model.

[uelmat_hyperfoam_2d.inp](../eif/uelmat_hyperfoam_2d.inp)

Hyperelastic foam.

[uelmat_nkh_2d.inp](../eif/uelmat_nkh_2d.inp)

Nonlinear kinematic hardening model.

[uelmat_pormetalpla_2d.inp](../eif/uelmat_pormetalpla_2d.inp)

Porous metal plasticity model.

[uelmatmech.f](../eif/uelmatmech.f)

User subroutine [`UELMAT`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uelmat) used with all the input files.

### II. Heat transfer user element

### Element tested

User element.

### Feature tested

User subroutine to define the element operator matrix and the right-hand-side vector.

### Problem description

The finite element model for each test case consists of a single 4-node user element. The element corresponds to the Abaqus element DC2D4. The boundary conditions consist of applying heat fluxes to two of the element nodes and applying constant temperatures to the remaining nodes. Steady-state and transient analyses are tested.

### Results and discussion

The results agree with the results obtained using an identical model with the Abaqus element DC2D4 instead of the user element.

### Input files

[uelmat_ht_2d_ss.inp](../eif/uelmat_ht_2d_ss.inp)

Steady-state heat transient analysis.

[uelmat_ht_2d_trans.inp](../eif/uelmat_ht_2d_trans.inp)

Transient heat transient analysis.

[uelmatht.f](../eif/uelmatht.f)

User subroutine [`UELMAT`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uelmat) used with uelmat_ht_2d_ss.inp and uelmat_ht_2d_trans.inp.




