# 5.1.10 Establishing geostatic equilibrium when the initial stress state is unknown







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

CAX4P    CAX4PH    CAX4RP    CAX4RPH    

CAX6MP    CAX6MPH    

CAX8P    CAX8PH    CAX8RP    CAX8RPH    

CAXA8P1    CAXA8RP1    

COH2D4P    COH3D6P    COH3D8P    COHAX4P    

CPE4P    CPE4PH    CPE4RP    CPE4RPH    

CPE6MP    CPE6MPH    

CPE8P    CPE8RP    

C3D8P    C3D8PH    C3D8RP    C3D8RPH    

C3D10MP    C3D10MPH    

C3D20P    C3D20PH    C3D20RP    C3D20RPH    

### Feature tested

Establishing geostatic equilibrium when the initial stress state is unknown is tested with various elements and materials.

### Problem description

These tests verify the ability to establish geostatic equilibrium when the inital stress state is unknown for various combinations of materials and elements. Simple one-element tests are used in which pore pressure and distributed loads are applied.

### Results and discussion

In all cases the results indicate that this option performs as expected. The absolute values of maximum displacements in all cases are within the limits specified. In addition, the results are close or identical to the results obtained without invoking automatic time incrementation, which is expected in these cases.

### Input files

[geo_nodisp_cax4p.inp](../eif/geo_nodisp_cax4p.inp)

Elements CAX4P, CAX4RP, CAX4PH, and CAX4RPH with elastic and porous elastic materials; uniaxial compression; linearly varying pore pressure values prescribed.

[geo_nodisp_cax6p.inp](../eif/geo_nodisp_cax6p.inp)

Elements CAX6MP and CAX6MPH with elastic and porous elastic materials; uniaxial compression; linearly varying pore pressure values prescribed.

[geo_nodisp_cax8p.inp](../eif/geo_nodisp_cax8p.inp)

Elements CAX8P, CAX8RP, CAX8PH, and CAX8RPH with elastic and porous elastic materials; uniaxial compression; linearly varying pore pressure values prescribed.

[geo_nodisp_caxa8p1.inp](../eif/geo_nodisp_caxa8p1.inp)

Elements CAXA8P1 and CAXA8RP1 with elastic and porous materials; uniaxial compression; linearly varying pore pressure values prescribed.

[geo_nodisp_coh2d.inp](../eif/geo_nodisp_coh2d.inp)

Element COH2D4P with elastic material; uniaxial compression; linearly varying pore pressure values prescribed.

[geo_nodisp_coh3d6p.inp](../eif/geo_nodisp_coh3d6p.inp)

Element COH3D6P with elastic material; uniaxial compression; linearly varying pore pressure values prescribed.

[geo_nodisp_coh3d8p.inp](../eif/geo_nodisp_coh3d8p.inp)

Element COH3D8P with elastic material; uniaxial compression; linearly varying pore pressure values prescribed.

[geo_nodisp_cohax4p.inp](../eif/geo_nodisp_cohax4p.inp)

Element COHAX4P with elastic material; uniaxial compression; linearly varying pore pressure values prescribed.

[geo_nodisp_cpe4p.inp](../eif/geo_nodisp_cpe4p.inp)

Elements CPE4P, CPE4RP, CPE4PH, and CPE4RPH with elastic and porous elastic materials; uniaxial compression; linearly varying pore pressure values prescribed.

[geo_nodisp_cpe4p_pla.inp](../eif/geo_nodisp_cpe4p_pla.inp)

Elements CPE4P, CPE4RP, CPE4PH, and CPE4RPH with elastic material, extended Cam-clay plasticity model and Mohr-Coulomb model; uniaxial compression; zero pore pressure assigned at all nodes.

[geo_nodisp_cpe4p_res.inp](../eif/geo_nodisp_cpe4p_res.inp)

Restart test for elements CPE4P, CPE4RP, CPE4PH, and CPE4RPH with elastic and porous elastic materials; uniaxial compression; linearly varying pore pressure values prescribed.

[geo_nodisp_cpe6p.inp](../eif/geo_nodisp_cpe6p.inp)

Elements CPE6MP and CPE6MPH with elastic and porous elastic materials; uniaxial compression; linearly varying pore pressure values prescribed.

[geo_nodisp_cpe8p.inp](../eif/geo_nodisp_cpe8p.inp)

Elements CPE8P, CPE8RP, CPE8PH, and CPE8RPH with elastic and porous elastic materials; uniaxial compression; linearly varying pore pressure values prescribed.

[geo_nodisp_c3d8p.inp](../eif/geo_nodisp_c3d8p.inp)

Elements C3D8P, C3D8RP, C3D8PH, and C3D8RPH with elastic and porous elastic materials; uniaxial compression; linearly varying pore pressure values prescribed.

[geo_nodisp_c3d10mp.inp](../eif/geo_nodisp_c3d10mp.inp)

Elements C3D10MP and C3D10MPH with elastic and porous elastic materials; uniaxial compression; linearly varying pore pressure values prescribed.

[geo_nodisp_c3d20p.inp](../eif/geo_nodisp_c3d20p.inp)

Elements C3D20P, C3D20RP, C3D20PH, and C3D20RPH  with elastic and porous elastic materials; uniaxial compression; linearly varying pore pressure values prescribed.




