# 5.1.25 Modified contact pressure-overclosure relationship







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

### Elements tested

CAX4    CAX4H    CAX4R    IRS21A    ISL21A    GAPUNI    

### Features tested

Modifications to the contact pressure-overclosure relationship are tested for a number of cases.

### Problem description

This set of tests verifies the softened contact option. All the tests are for axisymmetric, large-displacement, static analyses with finite sliding. The model in each test consists of a die pressing down on a rubber cylinder. The die is modeled either as a rigid surface or as a deformable body with mild steel properties. CAX4 elements are used in the Abaqus/Standard analyses, and CAX4R elements are used in the Abaqus/Explicit analyses. The blank is modeled as an incompressible Mooney-Rivlin material with CAX4H elements in Abaqus/Standard and CAX4R elements in Abaqus/Explicit. The bottom surface of the blank is constrained against vertical motion.

Each analysis has one step, in which a vertical prescribed displacement is applied to the die.

### Results and discussion

The analysis results indicate that the die penetrates the blank according to the prescribed pressure-overclosure relationship.

### Input files

##### **Abaqus/Standard input files**

#### Tabular pressure-overclosure relationship:

[xsctdd.inp](../eif/xsctdd.inp)

Deformable-deformable surface-based contact.

[xsctdr.inp](../eif/xsctdr.inp)

Deformable-rigid surface-based contact.

[xsctirs.inp](../eif/xsctirs.inp)

IRS contact elements.

[xsctisl.inp](../eif/xsctisl.inp)

ISL contact elements.

[xsctgap.inp](../eif/xsctgap.inp)

GAPUNI contact elements.

#### Linear pressure-overclosure relationship:

[xscldr.inp](../eif/xscldr.inp)

Deformable-rigid surface-based contact.

#### Exponential pressure-overclosure relationship:

[xscxdd.inp](../eif/xscxdd.inp)

Deformable-deformable surface-based contact.

[xscxdr.inp](../eif/xscxdr.inp)

Deformable-rigid surface-based contact.

[xscxirs.inp](../eif/xscxirs.inp)

IRS contact elements.

[xscxisl.inp](../eif/xscxisl.inp)

ISL contact elements.

[xscxgap.inp](../eif/xscxgap.inp)

GAPUNI contact elements.

##### **Abaqus/Explicit input files**

#### Linear pressure-overclosure relationship:

[linsoft_xpl_nosep.inp](../eif/linsoft_xpl_nosep.inp)

Deformable-rigid kinematic contact with no separation surface behavior.

[linsoft_xpl_nosep_pnlty.inp](../eif/linsoft_xpl_nosep_pnlty.inp)

Deformable-rigid penalty contact with no separation surface behavior.

#### Exponential pressure-overclosure relationship:

[expsoft_xpl_def_pnlty.inp](../eif/expsoft_xpl_def_pnlty.inp)

Deformable-deformable penalty contact.

[expsoft_xpl_rig_pnlty.inp](../eif/expsoft_xpl_rig_pnlty.inp)

Deformable-rigid penalty contact.

#### Tabular pressure-overclosure relationship:

[tabsoft_xpl_def.inp](../eif/tabsoft_xpl_def.inp)

Deformable-deformable kinematic contact.

[tabsoft_xpl_rig.inp](../eif/tabsoft_xpl_rig.inp)

Deformable-rigid kinematic contact.




