# 5.1.11 Specifying geometric imperfection and parameter shape variation







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

### Elements tested

CAX4H    S4R    S4R5    

### Features tested

Various methods of defining a geometric imperfection are tested. The same problems are performed using the parameter shape variation in Abaqus/Standard.

### Problem description

The verification problems contained in this section test the geometric imperfection and parameter shape variation procedures in Abaqus. Simple geometries are used to test the various methods of defining an imperfection: specifying imperfection values, defining the imperfection as a linear superposition of eigenmodes, or using the results of a static analysis.

### Results and discussion

The nodal coordinates of the perturbed geometry are verified to be correct.

### Input files

##### **Abaqus/Standard analyses**

[ximpa.inp](../eif/ximpa.inp)

Imperfection specified as perturbation values in the cylindrical coordinate system.

[xpsva.inp](../eif/xpsva.inp)

Shape variation specified as variation values in the cylindrical coordinate system.

[ximpb1.inp](../eif/ximpb1.inp)

Eigenvalue analysis of cylindrical shell structure.

[ximpb2.inp](../eif/ximpb2.inp)

Imperfection defined by linear superposition of eigenmodes obtained from ximpb1.inp.

[xpsvb2.inp](../eif/xpsvb2.inp)

Shape variation defined by linear superposition of eigenmodes obtained from ximpb1.inp.

[ximpc1.inp](../eif/ximpc1.inp)

Static analysis of a contact problem.

[ximpc2.inp](../eif/ximpc2.inp)

Imperfection defined from the static analysis of problem ximpc1.inp.

[xpsvc2.inp](../eif/xpsvc2.inp)

Shape variation defined from the static analysis of problem ximpc1.inp.

[ximpd.inp](../eif/ximpd.inp)

File containing node numbers and coordinate perturbations at those nodes.

[ximpe.inp](../eif/ximpe.inp)

Imperfection specified as perturbation values in cartesian coordinates read from the file ximpd.inp.

[ximpf.inp](../eif/ximpf.inp)

Imperfection specified on the data lines as perturbation values in a spherical coordinate system.

##### **Abaqus/Explicit analyses**

[imp_file1.inp](../eif/imp_file1.inp)

 Static analysis performed with Abaqus/Standard.

[imp_file2.inp](../eif/imp_file2.inp)

Imperfection defined from the static analysis of problem imp_file1.inp.

[imp_rect_data.inp](../eif/imp_rect_data.inp)

File containing node numbers and coordinate perturbations at those nodes.

[imp_rect.inp](../eif/imp_rect.inp)

Imperfection specified as perturbation values in Cartesian coordinates read from the file imp_rect_data.inp.

[imp_spher.inp](../eif/imp_spher.inp)

Imperfection specified on data lines as perturbation values in the spherical coordinate system.




