# 5.1.19 Pre-tension section







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

B21    B31    

C3D6    C3D8    C3D8IH    C3D8R    C3D10    C3D10M    C3D20    C3D27H    

CAX4    CAX4RH    CAX8R    CAX4T    

CPE3    CPE3H    CPE4    CPE4R    CPE8    CPE8RT    

CPS4R    CPS6M    CPS8    

T2D2    T3D2    T3D3    

### Feature tested

Applying a prescribed assembly load on a variety of structures by means of a pre-tension section is tested.

### Problem description

This set of tests verifies that the proper prescribed assembly load is applied to a structure using a pre-tension section. Loading is done by enforcing either a concentrated force (pre-tension load) or a displacement (tightening) at the pre-tension node (see ["Prescribed assembly loads," Section 34.5.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-prc-ppretension), for a description of this option). The structure is preloaded in the first step. In most cases it is further loaded in the second step, ensuring that the tightening is maintained.

The majority of the models are two-element meshes with boundary conditions that allow for uniform stretching of the cross-section. Thus, results verification is straightforward. Some input files have several two-element meshes with different element types set up in parallel.

In the first input file the total force in the defined pre-tension sections is output (see ["Output to the data and results files," Section 4.1.2 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-out-oprintfile)). The total force results in the direction perpendicular to the sections match the reaction forces at the reference nodes associated with the pre-tension sections exactly.

The analyses include a submodel run (with the pre-tension section fully enclosed by the submodel boundary) and a substructure run (where the substructure's retained degrees of freedom belong to the pre-tension section).

### Results and discussion

Analysis results indicate that the prescribed force or displacement is always established across the pre-tension section. Uniform sections yield a uniform axial stress given the analysis boundary conditions. Results after subsequent loading in the second step also indicate that the prescribed tightening of the section is maintained properly.

A full example that makes use of this feature is included in ["Axisymmetric analysis of bolted pipe flange connections," Section 1.1.1 of the Abaqus Example Problems Guide](../exa/exa-link.md#exa-sta-boltpipeflange).

### Input files

[xptssib2a.inp](../eif/xptssib2a.inp)

Tests in parallel, multiple element types; [*SECTION FILE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsectionfile) tests.

[xptspit3.inp](../eif/xptspit3.inp)

Linear static perturbation.

[xptsse23.inp](../eif/xptsse23.inp)

Tests in parallel, multiple element types.

[xptssh2a3.inp](../eif/xptssh2a3.inp)

Hyperelastic material.

[xptsri2.inp](../eif/xptsri2.inp)

Static analysis, Riks method.

[xptsdib.inp](../eif/xptsdib.inp)

Dynamic analysis.

[xptsdea.inp](../eif/xptsdea.inp)

Dynamic analysis with orthotropic material.

[xptsdh2.inp](../eif/xptsdh2.inp)

Direct-integration and subspace-based steady-state dynamics with hyperelastic material.

[xptsti2a.inp](../eif/xptsti2a.inp)

Coupled temperature-displacement.

[xptsfit.inp](../eif/xptsfit.inp)

Natural frequency extraction with steady-state dynamics.

[xptssi3.inp](../eif/xptssi3.inp)

C3D10 mixed with C3D20 elements; automatic midface node generation.

[xptssh3.inp](../eif/xptssh3.inp)

[*TRANSFORM](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mtransform) used on section nodes.

[xptssi23.inp](../eif/xptssi23.inp)

User-defined section normal; degenerate elements.

[xptssi2z.inp](../eif/xptssi2z.inp)

Static analysis with substructures.

[xptssi2.inp](../eif/xptssi2.inp)

Submodeling, global analysis.

[xptssi2s.inp](../eif/xptssi2s.inp)

Submodeling, local analysis.




