# 5.1.23 Extrapolation







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

B21    B31    CPS4    M3D4    S4R    T2D2    

### Features tested

Linear extrapolation, parabolic extrapolation, and suppression of extrapolation are tested.

### Problem description

These tests verify the performance of extrapolation for structural and continuum elements used in models subjected to an in-plane rotation of 45. For elements that do not have rotation degrees of freedom, beam elements are used to connect the elements to the point of rotation. The restart test verifies that the solution history information required for the extrapolation algorithm is transferred correctly to a restarted analysis.

### Results and discussion

In all cases the results indicate that this option performs as expected. When parabolic extrapolation is used, there is a speedup in computational time compared to linear extrapolation. The restart analysis results are identical to those for the original analysis from which the restart was run.

### Input files

[xstebeam.inp](../eif/xstebeam.inp)

Beam (B31) elements with parabolic extrapolation.

[xstecon.inp](../eif/xstecon.inp)

Continuum (CPS4) and beam (B31) elements with linear extrapolation.

[xstememb.inp](../eif/xstememb.inp)

Membrane (M3D4) and beam (B31) elements with parabolic extrapolation.

[xsteshel.inp](../eif/xsteshel.inp)

Shell (S4R) element with parabolic extrapolation.

[xsteshre.inp](../eif/xsteshre.inp)

Restart of xsteshel.inp without terminating the current step in the analysis from which the restart is made.

[xstetrs.inp](../eif/xstetrs.inp)

Truss (T2D2) and beam (B21) elements with parabolic extrapolation.




