# 1.3 What are the procedures for using the Abaqus Interface for MSC.ADAMS?







The typical usage of the Abaqus Interface for MSC.ADAMS involves creating a modal neutral file without stress or strain from a single results file and requires one Abaqus analysis and one Abaqus Interface for MSC.ADAMS step. The following procedure summarizes the typical usage of the Abaqus Interface for MSC.ADAMS: 

**To use the Abaqus Interface for MSC.ADAMS:**

1. Create an Abaqus model for each flexible component of the MSC.ADAMS model. Each component is modeled as an Abaqus substructure.
2. Run the Abaqus analysis.
3. Run the Abaqus Interface for MSC.ADAMS to read the Abaqus results file produced by the analysis and to create the modal neutral (`.mnf`) file for MSC.ADAMS.
4. Read the modal neutral file into MSC.ADAMS. A separate modal neutral file must be created for each flexible part in MSC.ADAMS.

If you want the Abaqus Interface for MSC.ADAMS to translate stress or strain to the modal neutral file, you can modify the general procedure. In the modified procedure the Abaqus Interface for MSC.ADAMS creates a modal neutral file from two results files and requires two Abaqus analyses and two Abaqus Interface for MSC.ADAMS steps. For more information, see ["Setting up the Abaqus model to create a modal neutral file with stress or strain," Section 2.3](ch02s03.md), and ["Executing the **adams** command to create a modal neutral file with stress or strain," Section 3.3](ch03s03.md).

 The remaining sections of this manual discuss these procedures in detail.



