# 3.3 Executing the adams command to create a modal neutral file with stress or strain







### 3.3 Executing the **adams** command to create a modal neutral file with stress or strain

To create a modal neutral file containing stress or strain, the Abaqus Interface for MSC.ADAMS must read data from two results files. You create the first results file according to the requirements described in ["Setting up the Abaqus model to create a modal neutral file with stress or strain," Section 2.3](ch02s03.md). Next, you use the **adams** command to create an input file for the second Abaqus analysis as described in ["Creating the second input file," Section 3.3.1](ch03s03.md#adm-chp-mnf-command-input). You then run the second Abaqus analysis, which writes the second results file. Finally, you use the **adams** command to create the modal neutral file as described in ["Creating the modal neutral file from two results files," Section 3.3.2](ch03s03.md#adm-chp-mnf-command-two).

### 3.3.1 Creating the second input file

To create the input file for the second Abaqus analysis, execute the Abaqus Interface for MSC.ADAMS using the following command:

| **abaqus adams** | **job**=*job-name* |
| --- | --- |
|  | **[****input**=*input-file***]** **[****make_se_recovery****]** **[****stress_modes**=**{**`ON`** | **`OFF`**}****]** **[****strain_modes**=**{**`ON`** | ** `OFF`**}****]** **[****section_point**=*section_point_number***]** |

****job****

This option controls the name of the new input file that will be created. The *job-name* value is used to construct the new input file name, `*job-name*_se_recovery.inp`. 

If this option is omitted from the command line, the user will be prompted for this value.

****input****

This option specifies the name of the results file from the first Abaqus analysis, if it is different from `*job-name*.fil`.

****make_se_recovery****

This option specifies that the translator is to create a new Abaqus input file. A modal neutral file will not be created. 

****stress_modes****

This option specifies that the new Abaqus input file will contain commands to write stress to the results file. The possible values are `ON` and `OFF`. The default value is `ON`.

****strain_modes****

This option specifies that the new Abaqus input file will contain commands to write strain to the results file. The possible values are `ON` and `OFF`. The default value is `OFF`.

****section_point****

This option specifies the section point at which shell stresses and/or strains will be written to the results file. The default value is 1. This option will be ignored for three-dimensional continuum elements.

### 3.3.2 Creating the modal neutral file from two results files

After running the two Abaqus analyses, as described above, you create a modal neutral file containing modal stress or strain by executing the Abaqus Interface for MSC.ADAMS using the following command:

| **abaqus adams** | **job**=*job-name* |
| --- | --- |
|  | **[****input**=*input-file***]** **[****se_recovery_job**=*se_recovery_job-name***]** **[****units**=`mmks` | `mks` | `cgs` | `ips`**]** **[****length**=*length-units-name***]** **[****mass**=*mass-units-name***]** **[****time**=*time-units-name***]** **[****force**=*force-units-name***]** |

****job****

This option controls the name of the modal neutral file that will be created. The *job-name* value is used to construct the new modal neutral file name, `*job-name*.mnf`. 

If this option is omitted from the command line, the user will be prompted for this value.

****input****

This option specifies the name of the results file from the first Abaqus analysis, if it is different from `*job-name*.fil`.

****se_recovery_job****

This option specifies the name of the results file from the second Abaqus analysis. 

****units****

This option specifies the units system for the model. The possible values are `mmks`, `mks`, `cgs`, or `ips`, which correspond to the ADAMS/View options with the same names. The default value is `mks`.

****length****

This option specifies the length units for the model. If this option is specified, it overrides the length units of the specified units system.

****mass****

This option specifies the mass units for the model. If this option is specified, it overrides the mass units of the specified units system.

****time****

This option specifies the time units for the model. If this option is specified, it overrides the time units of the specified units system.

****force****

This option specifies the force units for the model. If this option is specified, it overrides the force units of the specified units system.




