# 3.2 Executing the adams command to create a modal neutral file without stress or strain







### 3.2 Executing the **adams** command to create a modal neutral file without stress or strain

The **adams** command is used to read the Abaqus results file produced by the multistep Abaqus analysis and to produce an MSC.ADAMS modal neutral (`.mnf`) file. There are several specific requirements on the format of the results file. Creating an input file to satisfy these requirements is described in ["Setting up the Abaqus model to create a modal neutral file without stress or strain," Section 2.2](ch02s02.md).

| **abaqus adams** | **job**=*job-name* |
| --- | --- |
|  | **[****input**=*input-file***]** **[****units**=`mmks` | `mks` | `cgs` | `ips`**]** **[****length**=*length-units-name***]** **[****mass**=*mass-units-name***]** **[****time**=*time-units-name***]** **[****force**=*force-units-name***]** |

****job****

This option specifies the input and output file names to use during results file translation. The *job-name* value is used to construct the default input file name, `*job-name*.fil`. The output modal neutral file is given the name `*job-name*.mnf`.

If this option is omitted from the command line, the user will be prompted for this value.

****input****

This option specifies the name of the results file if it is different from `*job-name*.fil`.

****units****

This option specifies the units system for the model. The possible values are `mmks`, `mks`, `cgs`, or `ips`, which correspond to the ADAMS/View options with the same names. The default value is `mks`.

****length****

This option specifies the length units for the model. If this option is specified, it overrides the length units of the specified units system.

****mass****

This option specifies the mass units for the model. If this option is specified, it overrides the mass units of the specified units system.

****time****

This option specifies the time units for the model. If this option is specified, it overrides the time units of the specified units system.

****force****

This option specifies the force units for the model. If this option is specified, it overrides the force units of the specified units system.

Default values for the units options can be defined in the Abaqus environment file (`abaqus_v6.env`). The default for the **units** option can be defined with the **adams_units_family** parameter. The defaults for the **length**, **mass**, **time**, and **force** options can be defined with the **adams_length_units**, **adams_mass_units**, **adams_time_units**, and **adams_force_units** parameters, respectively.



