# 3.2.16 Fetching sample input files







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

##### **Reference**

- ["Execution procedure for Abaqus: overview," Section 3.1.1](pt01ch03s01abo02.md)

### Overview

The **abaqus fetch** utility is used to extract sample Abaqus input files, user subroutine files, journal files, parametric study script files, or postprocessing programs from the compressed archive files provided with the release (for problems in the [Abaqus Example Problems Guide](../exa/exa-link.md#exa), the [Abaqus Benchmarks Guide](../bmk/bmk-link.md#bmk), and the [Abaqus Verification Guide](../ver/ver-link.md#ver)). File names are specified in the guides. If no file extension is specified, all files corresponding to the name given will be extracted.

Wildcard expressions can be used when specifying the file names and include the following:
- An asterisk (*) matches a sequence of zero or more characters.
- A question mark (?) matches exactly one character.
- A bracketed item [...] matches any single character found inside the brackets; ranges are specified by a beginning character, a hyphen, and an ending character. If an exclamation point (!) or a caret (^) follow the left bracket, the range of characters within the brackets is complemented; that is, anything except the characters inside the brackets is considered a match.

Any character that might otherwise be interpreted or modified by the operating system, particularly on UNIX platforms, should be placed inside quotation marks. If no matches are found using the wildcard expressions, the **abaqus fetch** utility attempts to extract a file with the name specified.

### Command summary

| **abaqus fetch** | [**job**](pt01ch03s02abx16.md#job1-usb-int-dfetchproc)=*job-name* |
| --- | --- |
|  | **[**[**input**](pt01ch03s02abx16.md#input2-usb-int-dfetchproc)=*input-file***]** |

### Command line options

**job**

This option is used to specify the output file name for the fetched input file or files. It is also the default name of the input file to fetch.

If this option is omitted from the command line, you will be prompted for this value.

**input**

This option is used to specify the name of the input file or files to fetch if it is different from the *job-name*.

### Examples

To fetch the example input file `c2.inp` from the archive files, use the following command:

```
abaqus fetch job=c2.inp
```
To fetch all files associated with job `c8` from the archive files, do not specify a file extension. The following command will extract both the input file (`c8.inp`) and the user subroutine file (`c8.f`):
```
abaqus fetch job=c8
```
To fetch the sample parametric study scripting file `parstudy.psf` from the archive files, use the following command:
```
abaqus fetch job=parstudy.psf
```




