# 3.2.10 Parametric studies







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

##### **References**

- ["Execution procedure for Abaqus: overview," Section 3.1.1](pt01ch03s01abo02.md)
- ["Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, and Abaqus/CFD execution," Section 3.2.2](pt01ch03s02abx02.md)

### Overview

The **abaqus script** facility indicates that a parametric study is to be done (see ["Scripting parametric studies," Section 20.1.1](pt04ch20s01aus108.md)). Each analysis involved in the design can be executed using the **execute** command (see ["Execute the analysis of parametric study designs.," Section 20.2.4](pt04ch20s02asr04.md)). You can add any necessary Abaqus execution options (refer to ["Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, and Abaqus/CFD execution," Section 3.2.2](pt01ch03s02abx02.md)) to the execution command for each of the analyses by specifying them on the **execOptions** option of the **execute** command. If the script file contains references to other input files, these files must be located in the same directory as the script file. The files created by the execution of the script file are placed in the directory from which the Abaqus execution procedure is run.

### Command summary

| **abaqus script** | **[**=*script-file***]** |
| --- | --- |
|  | **[**[**startup**](pt01ch03s02abx10.md#startup1-usb-int-dparametricproc)=*startup file-name* **]** **[**[**noenvstartup**](pt01ch03s02abx10.md#noenvstartup2-usb-int-dparametricproc)**]** |

### Command line options

*script-file*

When a script file name is specified, the parametric study module is imported and the instructions in the parametric study script file are executed. If the script file name is omitted from the command line, the Python interpreter is initialized by importing the parametric study module.

**startup**

This option specifies the name of the file containing Python configuration commands to be run at application startup. Commands in this file are run after any configuration commands that have been set in the environment file.

**noenvstartup**

This option specifies that all configuration commands in the environment files should not be run at application startup. This option can be used in conjunction with the **startup** command to suppress all configuration commands except those in the **startup** file.

### Examples

Use the following command to execute the Python script in a file named “parstudy.psf”:

```
abaqus script=parstudy
```
The following command will initiate a Python scripting session: 
```
abaqus script
```
 In a Python scripting session the following command will execute the Python script in a file named “scriptfile”:
```
script("scriptfile")
```




