# 2.3.3 Node-based surface definition







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

##### **References**

- ["Surfaces: overview," Section 2.3.1](pt01ch02s03aus16.md)
- ["Mesh tie constraints," Section 35.3.1](pt08ch35s03aus132.md)
- ["Contact interaction analysis: overview," Section 36.1.1](pt09ch36s01abo33.md)
- [*SURFACE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-msurface)

### Overview

A node-based “surface”: 
- can be used only as a "slave surface" in contact calculations;
- can be used as a "slave" or "master surface" in a surface-based tie constraint;
- is convenient in three-dimensional cases where Abaqus cannot construct a unique physical surface on the elements, such as a pipe modeled with pipe elements contacting the ocean floor or cables modeled with trusses contacting the ground after they break;
- should be used with caution or not at all if accurate contact stresses are needed or if heat will be exchanged between the two surfaces;
- can be assigned a nonzero thickness for use with the general contact algorithm in Abaqus/Explicit;
- should not be used to model a shell or membrane surface if the thickness and midsurface offset need to be considered in the problem;
- must either contain nodes that are all part of the same rigid body or not contain any nodes that are part of a rigid body if the node-based surface is to be used in a penalty contact pair in Abaqus/Explicit;
- in Abaqus/Standard does not provide heat conduction between surfaces in fully coupled temperature-displacement analysis or pore fluid flow between surfaces in coupled pore pressure--displacement analysis;
- in Abaqus/Standard does not provide heat conduction and electrical conduction between surfaces in a fully coupled thermal-electrical-structural analysis; and
- does not include circumferential friction when used with axisymmetric elements with twist (CGAX, MGAX elements).

Alternatives to node-based surfaces are element-based surfaces (see ["Element-based surface definition," Section 2.3.2](pt01ch02s03aus17.md)) and, in the case of rigid surfaces, analytical rigid surfaces (see ["Analytical rigid surface definition," Section 2.3.4](pt01ch02s03aus19.md)). See ["Operating on surfaces," Section 2.3.6](pt01ch02s03aus21.md), for information on defining surfaces using Boolean combinations of existing surfaces.

### Creating a node-based surface

You create a node-based surface by specifying the nodes or node sets that form the surface. You must assign a name to the node-based surface; this name will be used when defining contact interactions that involve the surface.

An optional associated area can be defined for each node. If no area is defined for a node and the surface is defined in a contact pair, the area specified as part of the contact property definition is used. If no area is specified as part of the contact property definition, a unit area is used.

In Abaqus/Explicit the area used in contact pair calculations for a node in a node-based surface is always 1.0, regardless of the user-specified value. Therefore, the contact pressure output variable in Abaqus/CAE should be interpreted as the contact force when a node-based surface is used for contact pairs in Abaqus/Explicit.

In models that are defined in terms of an assembly of part instances, all surfaces must belong to a part, part instance, or the assembly. Additional rules are given in ["Defining an assembly," Section 2.10.1](pt01ch02s10aus28.md).

When the nodes of shell and membrane elements are used in a node-based surface, the thickness and midsurface offset of the shell or membrane at each node are not considered. However, a nonzero thickness can be assigned to node-based surfaces when used with the general contact algorithm in Abaqus/Explicit (see ["Assigning surface properties for general contact in Abaqus/Explicit," Section 36.4.2](pt09ch36s04aus156.md), for more information).

| **Input File Usage: ** | ``` [*SURFACE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-msurface), NAME=*name*, TYPE=NODE *node number or node set, area* ``` |
| --- | --- |




