# 3.2.7 Abaqus/Viewer execution







**Product: **Abaqus/Viewer  

##### **Reference**

- ["Execution procedure for Abaqus: overview," Section 3.1.1](pt01ch03s01abo02.md)

### Overview

Abaqus/Viewer, a subset of Abaqus/CAE that contains only the postprocessing capabilities of the Visualization module, is executed by running the Abaqus execution procedure and specifying the **viewer** parameter. 

### Command summary

| **abaqus viewer** | **[**[**database**](pt01ch03s02abx07.md#database1-usb-int-dviewerproc)=*database-file***]** |
| --- | --- |
|  | **[**[**replay**](pt01ch03s02abx07.md#replay2-usb-int-dviewerproc)=*replay-file***]** **[**[**startup**](pt01ch03s02abx07.md#startup3-usb-int-dviewerproc)=*startup-file***]** **[**[**script**](pt01ch03s02abx07.md#script4-usb-int-dviewerproc)=*script-file***]** **[**[**noGUI**](pt01ch03s02abx07.md#noGUI5-usb-int-dviewerproc)=[*noGUI-file*]**]** **[**[**noenvstartup**](pt01ch03s02abx07.md#noenvstartup6-usb-int-dviewerproc)**]** **[**[**noSavedOptions**](pt01ch03s02abx07.md#noSavedOptions7-usb-int-dviewerproc)**]** **[**[**noSavedGuiPrefs**](pt01ch03s02abx07.md#noSavedGuiPrefs8-usb-int-dviewerproc)**]** **[**[**noStartupDialog**](pt01ch03s02abx07.md#noStartupDialog9-usb-int-dviewerproc)**]** **[**[**custom**](pt01ch03s02abx07.md#custom10-usb-int-dviewerproc)=*script-file***]** **[**[**guiTester**](pt01ch03s02abx07.md#guiTester11-usb-int-dviewerproc)=[*GUI-script*]**]** **[**[**guiRecord**](pt01ch03s02abx07.md#guiRecord12-usb-int-dviewerproc)**]** **[**[**guiNoRecord**](pt01ch03s02abx07.md#guiNoRecord13-usb-int-dviewerproc)**]** |

### Command line options

**database**

This option specifies the name of the output database file to use if it is different from *job-name*. The procedure searches for *database-file* as entered on the command line with the `.odb` file extension.

**replay**

This option specifies the name of the file from which Abaqus/Viewer commands are read. The commands in *replay-file* will execute immediately upon startup of Abaqus/Viewer. If no file extension is given, the default extension is `.rpy`. You cannot use the `replay` option to execute a script with control flow statements. 

**startup**

This option specifies the name of the file containing the Python configuration commands to be run at application startup. Commands in this file are run after any configuration commands that have been set in the environment file. Abaqus/Viewer does not echo the commands to the replay file when they are executed.

**script**

This option specifies the name of the file containing Python configuration commands to be run at application startup. Commands in this file are run after any configuration commands that have been set in the environment file.

**noGUI**

This option specifies that Abaqus/Viewer is to be run without the graphical user interface (GUI). If no file name is specified, an Abaqus/Viewer license is checked out and the Python interpreter is initialized to allow interactive entry of Python or Abaqus Scripting Interface commands. 

If a file name is specified, Abaqus/Viewer runs the commands in the file and exits upon their completion.  If no file extension is given, the default extension is `.py`. This option is useful for automating post-analysis processing tasks without the added expense of running a display. Since no interface is provided, the scripts cannot include any user interaction.

**noenvstartup**

This option specifies that all configuration commands in the environment files should not be run at application startup. This option can be used in conjunction with the **script** command to suppress all configuration commands except those in the **script** file.

**noSavedOptions**

This option specifies that Abaqus/Viewer should not apply the display options settings stored in `abaqus_v6.14.gpr` (for example, the render style and the display of boundary conditions). For more information, see ["Saving your display options settings," Section 76.16 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#uss-dsp-preferences).

**noSavedGuiPrefs**

This option specifies that Abaqus/Viewer should not apply the GUI settings stored in `abaqus_v6.14.gpr` (for example, the size and location of the Abaqus/CAE main window or its dialog boxes).

**noStartupDialog**

This option specifies that the **Start Session** dialog box for Abaqus/Viewer should not be displayed.

**custom**

This option specifies the name of the file containing Abaqus GUI Toolkit commands. This option executes an application that is a customized version of Abaqus/Viewer. For more information, see [Chapter 1, "Introduction," of the Abaqus GUI Toolkit User's Guide](../cus/cus-link.md#cus-int-int).

**guiTester**

This option starts a separate user interface containing the Python development environment along with Abaqus/Viewer. The Python development environment allows you to create, edit, step through, and debug Python scripts. For more information, see [Part III, "The Abaqus Python development environment," of the Abaqus Scripting User's Guide](../cmd/cmd-link.md#cmd-pde). 

You can specify a script as the argument for this option, which prompts Abaqus/Viewer to run a GUI script. Abaqus/Viewer closes when the end of the script is reached.

**guiRecord**

This option enables you to record your actions in the Abaqus/Viewer user interface in a file named `abaqus.guiLog`. You can also set this option at startup by using the environment variable `ABQ_CAE_GUIRECORD`. The **guiRecord** option cannot be used with the **guiTester** option.

**guiNoRecord**

This option enables you to disable user interface recording when the environment variable `ABQ_CAE_GUIRECORD` is set.




