# 3.2.12 Licensing utilities







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  Abaqus/CFD  

##### **Reference**

- ["Execution procedure for Abaqus: overview," Section 3.1.1](pt01ch03s01abo02.md)

### Overview

The **abaqus licensing** utilities provide management and monitoring tools for both types of Abaqus licensing: FLEXnet and Dassault Systmes licensing. Executing the **abaqus licensing** command without additional arguments displays a command usage summary of all available utilities. 

For a detailed description of all of the FLEXnet Licensing utilities, refer to the FLEXnet Licensing End User Guide Version 11.6.1. You can download this document from the **Licensing** section of the **Support** page at [www.3ds.com/simulia](http://www.3ds.com/simulia). Several of the most useful licensing utilities are listed in the command summary below.

For more information, see [Chapter 3, "Abaqus licensing," of the Abaqus Installation and Licensing Guide](../sgb/sgb-link.md#sgb-chp-net-license).

### Command summary

| **abaqus licensing** | **[**[**lmstat**](pt01ch03s02abx12.md#lmstat1-usb-int-dlicproc)** | **[**lmdiag**](pt01ch03s02abx12.md#lmdiag2-usb-int-dlicproc)** | **[**lmpath**](pt01ch03s02abx12.md#lmpath3-usb-int-dlicproc)** | **[**lmtools**](pt01ch03s02abx12.md#lmtools4-usb-int-dlicproc)** | **[**dslsstat**](pt01ch03s02abx12.md#dslsstat5-usb-int-dlicproc)** | **[**reporttool**](pt01ch03s02abx12.md#reporttool6-usb-int-dlicproc)**]** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |

### Command line options

**lmstat**

This option displays information about the location and features served by the FLEXnet Licensing servers used to serve the Abaqus license. Additional arguments may be used with this command to generate more license usage information.

**lmdiag**

This option displays information relating to the various FLEXnet Licensing features and indicates whether or not the feature may be checked out.

**lmpath**

This option can be used to control where Abaqus looks for licenses. Additional arguments are used to print, set, or add license location information. Running the command without arguments will display the command summary for each action.

**lmtools**

This option starts the FLEXnet Licensing toolchest on Windows platforms. This application can be used to invoke most FLEXnet Licensing administration tool functions.

**dslsstat**

This option displays information about the location and features served by the Dassault Systmes license server (DSLS). See ["Using the `dslsstat` utility for a Dassault Systmes license server," Section 3.9 of the Abaqus Installation and Licensing Guide](../sgb/sgb-link.md#sgb-chp-net-lic-dslsstat), for more information.

**reporttool**

This option is used to generate reports from license usage history. See ["Using the `reporttool` utility," Section 3.10 of the Abaqus Installation and Licensing Guide](../sgb/sgb-link.md#sgb-chp-net-lic-dslsreport), for more information.




