# 3.2.14 Joining results (.fil) files







### 3.2.14 Joining results (`.fil`) files

**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

##### **Reference**

- ["Execution procedure for Abaqus: overview," Section 3.1.1](pt01ch03s01abo02.md)

### Overview

The **abaqus append** postprocessing facility: 
- is provided to join results (`.fil`) files into a single file;
- permits two results files that may be either ASCII or binary files, or a combination of ASCII and binary, to be joined for further postprocessing; and
- will write a results file in the same format as the file specified with the **oldjob** option.

A similar utility, **abaqus restartjoin**, is used to join output database (`.odb`) files. See ["Joining output database (`.odb`) files from restarted analyses," Section 3.2.21](pt01ch03s02abx21.md), for details.

### Command summary

| **abaqus append** | [**job**](pt01ch03s02abx14.md#job1-usb-int-dappendfil)=*job-name* |
| --- | --- |
|  | [**oldjob**](pt01ch03s02abx14.md#oldjob2-usb-int-dappendfil)=*oldjob-name* [**input**](pt01ch03s02abx14.md#input3-usb-int-dappendfil)=*input-file* |

### Command line options

**job**

This option specifies the output file name to use during execution. The *job-name* value is used as the output file name. The joined output file will have the name `*job-name*.fil`.

If this option is omitted from the command line, you will be prompted for this value.

**oldjob**

This option specifies the name of the first results file to use during execution. The *oldjob-name* value is used as the results file name.

If this option is omitted from the command line, you will be prompted for this value.

**input**

This option specifies the name of the second results file to use during execution. The *input-file* results file will be appended to the *oldjob-name* results file.

If this option is omitted from the command line, you will be prompted for this value.

### Example

The following command will append the history contents of the `fjoin003.fil` results file to the end of the `fjoin002.fil` results file and create the file `fjoin001.fil`:

```
abaqus append job=fjoin001 oldjob=fjoin002 input=fjoin003
```




