# 3.2.39 Job execution control







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  Abaqus/CFD  

##### **Reference**

- ["Execution procedure for Abaqus: overview," Section 3.1.1](pt01ch03s01abo02.md)

### Overview

The execution procedures for job execution control include **abaqus suspend**, **abaqus resume**, and **abaqus terminate**. These utilities are used to suspend, resume, and terminate Abaqus analysis jobs. Suspending an analysis job will stop its execution and release its license tokens to the free-token pool. Resuming an analysis will reactivate a suspended job and check out license tokens for that job if they are available. The job will be placed in the license queue if license tokens are not available. Terminating an analysis job will stop the executable for the analysis and release its license tokens. A terminated analysis job cannot be resumed.

You can execute these commands remotely; you are not required to execute these commands on the machine running the analysis.

### Command summary

| **abaqus {suspend | resume | terminate} ** | **{**[**job**](pt01ch03s02abx39.md#job1-usb-int-dsuspend)=*job-name*** | **[**host**](pt01ch03s02abx39.md#host2-usb-int-dsuspend)=*hostname* [**port**](pt01ch03s02abx39.md#port3-usb-int-dsuspend)=*port-number***}** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |

### Command line options

**job**

This option is used to specify the name of the analysis job to suspend, resume, or terminate. When using this option, the command must be executed from the working directory of the job. The command reads the *job-name*.`cid` file to obtain the host name and port number used to signal the job.

**host**

This option is used to specify the host name for the connection running the analysis job. This option must be used in conjunction with the **port** option. The host name can be identified by reading the last line of the *job-name*.`cid` file, which lists *hostname*:*port-number*.

**port**

This option is used to specify the port number for the connection running the analysis job. This option must be used in conjunction with the **host** option. The port number can be identified by reading the last line of the *job-name*.`cid` file, which lists *hostname*:*port-number*.




