# 3.2.15 Querying the keyword/problem database







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  Abaqus/CFD  

##### **Reference**

- ["Execution procedure for Abaqus: overview," Section 3.1.1](pt01ch03s01abo02.md)

### Overview

The **abaqus findkeyword** utility queries a keyword/problem database that contains information on Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, and Abaqus/CFD example problems, verification problems, problems used in training seminars, problems shown in the Abaqus technology briefs, benchmark timing problems, and those in the tutorial book [Getting Started with Abaqus: Keywords Edition](../gsk/gsk-link.md#gsk). You specify which keywords, parameters, and values are of interest; and this utility will list the input files that contain those keywords, parameters, and values. You can specify multiple keywords, which causes the **findkeyword** utility to list those input files that contain all of the specified keywords. You can then use the **abaqus fetch** utility to fetch the input files (see ["Fetching sample input files," Section 3.2.16](pt01ch03s02abx16.md)). The output is grouped into problem sets; e.g., Abaqus Example Problems or Abaqus/Standard Technology Brief Problems.

### Command summary

| **abaqus findkeyword** | **[**[**job**](pt01ch03s02abx15.md#job1-usb-int-dkeywordproc)=*job-name***]** |
| --- | --- |
|  | **[**[**maximum**](pt01ch03s02abx15.md#maximum2-usb-int-dkeywordproc)=*maximum-output***]** |

*keyword data lines*

### Command line options

**job**

This option is used to specify the output file name for the output listing. If this option is omitted from the command line, the output will be printed to the standard output device.

**maximum**

This option is used to limit the number of sample problems that are listed for each set. If this option is omitted, a maximum of 100 sample problems are listed for each set.

*keyword data lines*

The *keyword data lines* specify which Abaqus keywords, parameters, and values are of interest to the user. The names of sample problems that contain the specified keywords, parameters, and values are printed to the standard output device or to the file indicated by the **job** command line parameter. The keyword is required, but parameters and values are optional. If a keyword is specified without a parameter or a value, all sample problems that use that keyword (with or without parameters and values) will be listed. If a parameter is specified without a value, all sample problems that use that parameter with any value will be listed. Parameter values that are user-specified data (e.g., numeric data, set names, orientation names, etc.) are ignored. The end of the keyword data lines is indicated by an empty line or an end of file.

### Examples

The following examples illustrate the different types of search criteria utilized by the **findkeyword** execution procedure.

#### Querying for keywords and parameters

To list the sample problems that use the [*RESTART](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mrestart) option with the WRITE parameter, type the following command and data lines:

```
abaqus findkeyword
[*RESTART](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mrestart),WRITE
```
 To generate a list of sample problems that contain two keyword lines in the same file, both keywords are included as data lines. For example, 
```
abaqus findkeyword
[*RESTART](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mrestart),WRITE
[*NGEN](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mngen)
```
To list all sample problems that use a keyword and parameter with a value, the value must be included on the data line. For example, 
```
abaqus findkeyword job=beam
[*BEAM SECTION](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mbeamsection),SECTION=ARBITRARY
```
The output is written to the file `beam.dat`.

#### Querying for user-specified parameter values

User-specified parameter values (e.g., numeric data, set names, orientation names, etc.) are ignored. The following two examples are equivalent because the value `MYSET` is an element set name. 

```
abaqus findkeyword
[*ELSET](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-melset),ELSET=MYSET
```

```
abaqus findkeyword
[*ELSET](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-melset),ELSET
```




