# 3.1.1 Execution procedure for Abaqus: overview







### Overview

Abaqus is executed by using the Abaqus execution procedure. In the following discussion the command to run the execution procedure is assumed to be **abaqus**. However, you can customize the execution procedure to run Abaqus using any alias you choose. (See the [Abaqus Installation and Licensing Guide](../sgb/sgb-link.md#sgb) for details.) 

The **abaqus** command is described in ["Execution procedures," Section 3.2](pt01ch03s02.md). The following sections contain further information about running Abaqus jobs:
- ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md)
- ["Managing memory and disk use in Abaqus," Section 3.4.1](pt01ch03s04aus31.md)
- ["Parallel execution," Section 3.5](pt01ch03s05.md)
- ["File extensions used by Abaqus," Section 3.6.1](pt01ch03s06aus36.md)
- ["FORTRAN unit numbers used by Abaqus," Section 3.7.1](pt01ch03s07aus37.md)

### Conventions

The following conventions are used in these sections:
- Each discussion includes a "Command summary" section that provides the syntax for the command in the left column and the syntax for its options in the right column. The full command must appear first, followed by the options. In some cases the command has multiple words, such as **abaqus cae**; you must enter all words of the command before issuing any option statements.
- Options are presented in **boldface**. They can appear in any order and can be abbreviated.
- Default options are underlined ( __ ).
- Items enclosed in square brackets ([ ]) are optional.
- Items appearing in a list separated by bars ( | ) are mutually exclusive.
- One value must be selected from a list of values enclosed by curly brackets ({ }).
- You must supply values in *italics*.
- Blanks are used as separators between options and must not precede nor follow an equal sign.
- An alternate syntax of **-option** *value* can be used instead of the **option**=*value* format.

 The **abaqus** procedure will prompt for any information required that is not provided on the command line. If **abaqus** is typed with no options, prompts are issued for all options.

### Environment settings

The Abaqus execution procedure uses “environment” settings to customize the execution of a job. These settings can be changed using the Abaqus environment file, `abaqus_v6.env`. The execution procedure looks for this file in two places other than the installation location when running a job. The first place it looks is in your home directory. If it exists, the settings in this file will be applied to all jobs that you run. The second place the execution procedure looks is in the current directory. If the file exists, the settings defined there will be applied to all jobs run from that directory.

 If the same job parameter is defined in more than one environment file or is defined more than once within the same environment file, the last definition encountered will be used. Some exceptions to this rule are noted in ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md). These environment files can be used to customize the behavior of Abaqus, including modification of the default options. See ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md), for further information on the environment files.

### Selecting TCP/UDP port numbers

 Several of the execution procedure command line options, such as **port** and **listenerport**, require that you specify a port number. TCP/UDP port numbers can range from 0 to 65535.

Port numbers 0 to 1023 are well-known ports used by system processes (such as FTP, SSH, SMTP, etc.) and should never be used. Port numbers 1024 to 49151 are registered ports with the Internet Assigned Number Authority (IANA) by software vendors. These ports can be used, but you should be careful that you are not conflicting with any software installed on your system that may be using this port. Port numbers 49152 to 65535 are unreserved and can be used freely, as long as no other application uses them.

Ports may be blocked by a firewall. Contact your system administrator to ensure that the ports that you want to specify are not blocked.

You can use the `netstat` command to obtain information on TCP/UDP network connections.




