# 3.2.19 SIM database utilities







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  Abaqus/CFD  

##### **References**

- ["Execution procedure for Abaqus: overview," Section 3.1.1](pt01ch03s01abo02.md)
- ["Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, and Abaqus/CFD execution," Section 3.2.2](pt01ch03s02abx02.md)

### Overview

The **sim_version** utility can be used to convert a SIM database file from one release to another, to query a SIM database file for its SIM release level, or to determine the SIM release level of the current code you are using.

### Command summary

| **abaqus sim_version** | **{**[**convert**](pt01ch03s02abx19.md#convert1-usb-int-dsimversion)=*old-sim-file-name*** | **[**query**](pt01ch03s02abx19.md#query2-usb-int-dsimversion)=*sim-file-name*** | **[**current**](pt01ch03s02abx19.md#current3-usb-int-dsimversion)**}** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | **[**[**out**](pt01ch03s02abx19.md#out4-usb-int-dsimversion)=*new-sim-file-name***]** **[**[**level**](pt01ch03s02abx19.md#level5-usb-int-dsimversion)=*release-level***]** **[**[**help**](pt01ch03s02abx19.md#help6-usb-int-dsimversion)**]** |

### Command line options

**convert**

This option is used to specify the name of the SIM database file to be converted.

**query**

This option is used to specify the name of the SIM database file to query for its SIM release level.

**current**

This option is used to determine the SIM release level of the current code you are using. 

**out**

This option is used to specify the name of the SIM database file to be output by the utility. This option is used in conjunction with the **convert** option.

**level**

This option is used to specify the release level name to which the SIM database file is to be converted. For Abaqus 6.14 the only supported release level name is `V6R2014x`. Release level names are case insensitive. This option is used in conjunction with the **convert** option.

**help**

This option prints a summary of the **abaqus sim_version** command syntax.

### Examples

Use the following command to query a SIM database file for the release level number:

```
abaqus sim_version query=*sim-file-name* 
```
Use the following command to determine the SIM level corresponding to the current Abaqus release:
```
abaqus sim_version current 
```

#### Downgrading SIM database files generated by Abaqus 6.14

Use the following command to downgrade SIM database files generated by Abaqus 6.14 for use with the 3DEXPERIENCE R2014x high-performance postprocessing Physics Results Explorer app:

```
abaqus sim_version convert=*sim-file-name* out=*downgraded-sim-file-name* 
   level=V6R2014x
```

The following example includes the **onJobCompletion** function in the Abaqus environment file to automatically downgrade a SIM database file after the Abaqus job completes. For more information, see ["Job customization parameters," Section 4.1.3 of the Abaqus Installation and Licensing Guide](../sgb/sgb-link.md#sgb-chp-env-jobcustom). 

The following **onJobCompletion** definition downgrades files to the release level required for use with the 3DEXPERIENCE R2014x Physics Results Explorer app:

```
def onJobCompletion():
    import os, osutils, subprocess
    print "Executing onJobCompletion"
    abaqusCmd = "abaqus"  # set this to the command used at your site
    simRoot = os.path.join(savedir,id)
    simName = simRoot + ".sim"
    if os.path.exists(simName):
       print "Found SIMDoc %s; running downgrade" % simName
       downgradedSimName = simRoot + "_R2014x" + ".sim"
       cmd = abaqusCmd + " sim_version convert=" + simName \
           + " level=V6R2014x out=" + downgradedSimName
       subprocess.call(cmd)
       if not os.path.exists(downgradedSimName):
          print "SIM Downgrade failed"
    print "End of onJobCompletion"
```




