# 3.6.1 File extensions used by Abaqus







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  Abaqus/CFD  

##### **Reference**

- ["Execution procedure for Abaqus: overview," Section 3.1.1](pt01ch03s01abo02.md)

### Overview

The **abaqus** procedure generates several files. Some of these files contain analysis, postprocessing, and translation results and are retained for use by other analysis options, restarting, or postprocessing. This section describes the files that are created and retained by Abaqus.

Other files exist only while Abaqus is executing and are deleted when a run completes. These temporary files are generated in the scratch directory. The number and types of temporary files generated depend on the analysis procedures, memory management parameters, and environment settings.

Certain file extensions used by Abaqus are also used by other software applications. You must handle any file extension conflicts with other applications.

### File extensions

**`abq`**

State file, only used by Abaqus/Explicit. It is written by the **analysis**, **continue**, and **recover** options. It is read by the **convert** and **recover** options. This file is required for restart.

**`axi`**

Symmetric model data file, only used by Abaqus/Standard. It is written during symmetric model generation by the **datacheck** and **analysis** options.

**`bsp`**

Text file containing beam cross-section properties for meshed section profiles. It is written by Abaqus/Standard during meshed beam cross-section generation.

**`c`**

User subroutine or other special-purpose C file.

**`c++`**

User subroutine or other special-purpose C++ file.

**`cpp`**

User subroutine or other special-purpose C++ file.

**`cid`**

Auto-release file, which contains information needed for license recovery and suspension.

**`com`**

Command file, created by the Abaqus execution procedure.

**`dat`**

Printed output file. It is written by the **analysis**, **datacheck**, **parametercheck**, and **continue** options. Abaqus/Explicit and Abaqus/CFD do not write analysis results to this file.

**`f`**

User subroutine or other special-purpose FORTRAN file.

**`fil`**

Results file. It is written by the **analysis** and **continue** options in Abaqus/Standard and by the **convert**=`select` and **convert**=`all` options in Abaqus/Explicit.

**`fin`**

Results file created when changing the format of the `.fil` file using the **abaqus ascfil** command. It can be in either ASCII or binary format. (See ["ASCII translation of results (`.fil`) files," Section 3.2.13](pt01ch03s02abx13.md).) The ASCII format is convenient for data transfer between machines that do not have compatible binary data formats.

**`inp`**

Analysis input file. It is read when the **analysis**, **datacheck**, and **parametercheck** options are selected.

**`ipm`**

Interprocess message file. It is written when an analysis is run from Abaqus/CAE, and it contains a log of all messages sent from Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, or Abaqus/CFD to Abaqus/CAE.

**`lck`**

Lock file for the output database. This file is written whenever an output database file is opened with write access; it prevents you from having simultaneous write permission to the output database from multiple sources. It is deleted automatically when the output database file is closed or when the analysis that creates it ends. The **ask_delete** environment file parameter setting will not affect the lock file.

**`log`**

Log file, which contains start and end times for modules run by the current Abaqus execution procedure.

**`mdl`**

Model file, used by Abaqus/Standard and Abaqus/Explicit. It is written by the **datacheck** option. It is read and can be written by the **analysis** and **continue** options in Abaqus/Standard. It is read by the **analysis** and **continue** options in Abaqus/Explicit. Multiple model files may exist if the element operations are executed in parallel in an Abaqus/Standard analysis. In such a case a process identifier is attached to the file name. This file is required for restart.

**`msg`**

Message file. It is written by the **analysis**, **datacheck**, and **continue** options in Abaqus/Standard and Abaqus/Explicit. Multiple message files may exist if the element operations are executed in parallel in an Abaqus/Standard analysis. In such a case a process identifier is attached to the file name.

**`nck`**

Nickname file used by Abaqus/Standard. It stores a set of internal identifiers for the degrees of freedom in a model.

**`odb`**

Output database. It is written by the **analysis** and **continue** options in Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, and Abaqus/CFD. It is read by the Visualization module in Abaqus/CAE (Abaqus/Viewer) and by the **convert**=`odb` option. This file is required for restart.

**`pac`**

Package file, which contains model information and is used by Abaqus/Explicit only. It is written by the **analysis** and **datacheck** options. It is read by the **analysis**, **continue**, and **recover** options. This file is required for restart.

**`par`**

Modified version of original parametrized input file showing input parameters and their values.

**`pes`**

Modified version of original parametrized input file showing input free of parameter information (after input parameter evaluation and substitution has been performed).

**`pmg`**

Parameter evaluation and substitution message file. It is written when the input file is parametrized.

**`prt`**

Part file, used by Abaqus/Standard and Abaqus/Explicit. This file is used to store part and assembly information and is created even if the input file does not contain an assembly definition. The part file is required for restart, import, sequentially coupled thermal-stress analysis, symmetric model generation, and underwater shock analysis, even if the model is not defined in terms of an assembly of part instances. This file may also be needed for submodeling analysis.

**`psf`**

Python scripting file. You must create this type of file to define a parametric study.

**`res`**

Restart file, which contains information necessary to continue a previous analysis and is used by Abaqus/Standard and Abaqus/Explicit. The restart file is written by the **analysis**, **datacheck**, and **continue** options. It is read by any restarted analysis.

**`sel`**

Selected results file, used by Abaqus/Explicit. It is written by the **analysis**, **continue**, and **recover** options and is read by the **convert**=`select` option. This file is required for restart.

**`sim`**

Model and results file, used by Abaqus/CFD. It is also used by Abaqus/Standard and Abaqus/Explicit when the **resultsformat**=`sim` or `both` option is specified. It is written by the **datacheck** option. It is read and can be written by the **analysis** and **continue** options. This file is required for restart.

Linear dynamics data file, used by Abaqus/Standard when the **resultsformat**=`odb` option is specified. It is written during the frequency extraction procedure in SIM-based linear dynamics analyses (see ["Using the SIM architecture for modal superposition dynamic analyses" in "Dynamic analysis procedures: overview," Section 6.3.1](pt03ch06s03abo07.md#usb-anl-alineardynamics), for details) and is used to store eigenvectors, substructure matrices, and other modal system information. This file is required for restart.

**`sta`**

Status file. Abaqus writes increment summaries to this file in the **analysis**, **continue**, and **recover** options.

**`stt`**

State file. It is written by the **datacheck** option in Abaqus/Standard and Abaqus/Explicit. It is read and can be written by the **analysis** and **continue** options in Abaqus/Standard. It is read by the **analysis** and **continue** options in Abaqus/Explicit. Multiple state files may exist if the element operations are executed in parallel in an Abaqus/Standard analysis. In such a case a process identifier is attached to the file name. This file is required for restart.

**`sup`**

Substructure file, used by Abaqus/Standard.

**`var`**

File containing information about the input file variations generated by a parametric study.

**`023`**

Communications file, used by Abaqus/Standard and Abaqus/Explicit. It is written by the **analysis** and **datacheck** options and is read by the **analysis** and **continue** options.




