# 5.1.4 Utility routines for accessing the results file







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

##### **References**

- ["Accessing the results file information," Section 5.1.3](pt02ch05s01aus43.md)
- ["URDFIL," Section 1.1.49 of the Abaqus User Subroutines Reference Guide](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-rtn-uurdfil)
- ["Joining data from multiple results files and converting file format: FJOIN," Section 15.1.2 of the Abaqus Example Problems Guide](../exa/exa-link.md#exa-pst-fjoin)
- ["Calculation of principal stresses and strains and their directions: FPRIN," Section 15.1.3 of the Abaqus Example Problems Guide](../exa/exa-link.md#exa-pst-fprin)
- ["Creation of a perturbed mesh from original coordinate data and eigenvectors: FPERT," Section 15.1.4 of the Abaqus Example Problems Guide](../exa/exa-link.md#exa-pst-fpert)

### Overview

The Abaqus results (`.fil`) file can be accessed with the utility routines described in this section. Access is subsequent to an analysis by a user-written postprocessing program or, in Abaqus/Standard, from within an analysis by user subroutine [`URDFIL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-urdfil).

The following utility subroutines are available: 
- `DBFILE` (read from a file)
- `DBFILW` (write to a file)
- `DBRNU` (set a unit number for a file)
- `INITPF` (initialize a file)
- `POSFIL` (determine position in a file; available only in Abaqus/Standard)

These utility subroutines are described below in alphabetical order.

Only the subroutines `DBFILE` and `POSFIL` can be called from user subroutine [`URDFIL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-urdfil).

### `DBFILE` (read from a file)

#### Interface

```
CALL DBFILE(LOP,ARRAY,JRCD)
```

#### Variable to be provided to the utility routine

`LOP`

A flag, which you must set before calling `DBFILE`, indicating the operation. Set `LOP`=0 to read the next record in the file; set `LOP`=2 to rewind the file currently being read (for example, if it is necessary to read the file more than once, it must be rewound since it is a sequential file). If `LOP`=2 is used, the file must first be read to the end, and it should be rewound only when the end-of-file is reached.

#### Variables returned from the utility routine

`ARRAY`

The array containing one record from the file, in the format described in ["Results file output format," Section 5.1.2](pt02ch05s01afi01.md). When `LOP`=0, this array will be filled by the data management routines with the contents of the next record in the file as each call to `DBFILE` is executed. `ARRAY` must be dimensioned adequately in your routines to contain the largest record in the file. For almost all cases 500 words is sufficient. The exceptions arise if the problem definition includes user elements or user materials that use more than this many state variables or if substructures with a large number of retained degrees of freedom are used (see ["Using substructures," Section 10.1.1](pt04ch10s01aus58.md), for more details regarding substructures). When the results file has been written on a system on which Abaqus runs in double precision, `ARRAY` must be declared double precision in your routine.

`JRCD`

Returned as nonzero if an end-of-file marker is read when `DBFILE` is called with `LOP`=0.

### `DBFILW` (write to a file)

#### Interface

```
CALL DBFILW(LOP,ARRAY,JRCD)
```

#### Variables to be provided to the utility routine

`ARRAY`

The array containing one record to be written to the file, in the format described in ["Results file output format," Section 5.1.2](pt02ch05s01afi01.md).

`JRCD`

Return code (0 – record written successfully, 1 – record not written).

`LOP`

Not currently used.

### `DBRNU` (set a unit number for a file)

#### Interface

```
CALL DBRNU(JUNIT)
```

#### Variable to be provided to the utility routine

`JUNIT`

The FORTRAN unit number of the results file to be read. Valid unit numbers are 8 to read the `.fil` file, 15–18, or numbers greater than 100. 

### `INITPF` (initialize a file)

#### Interface

```
CALL INITPF(FNAME,NRU,LRUNIT,LOUTF)
```

#### Variables to be provided to the utility routine

`FNAME`

A character string defining the root file name (that is, the name without an extension) of the files being read or written. `FNAME` must be declared as `CHARACTER*80` and can include the directory specification as well as the root file name. The extension of each individual file is defined by the `LRUNIT` array below. See the discussion below for file naming conventions.

`NRU`

An integer giving the number of results files that the postprocessing program will read. Normally only one results file is read, but sometimes it is necessary to read several results files—for example, to merge them into a single file.

`LRUNIT`

An integer array that must be dimensioned `LRUNIT(2,NRU)` in the postprocessing program and must contain the following data before `INITPF` is called:

`LRUNIT(1,K1)` is the FORTRAN unit number on which the `K1`th results file will be read. Valid unit numbers are 8 to read the `.fil` file, 15–18, or numbers greater than 100. All other units are reserved by Abaqus. See below for naming conventions based on the unit numbers.

 `LRUNIT(2,K1)` is an integer that must be set to 2 if the `K1`th results file was written as a binary file or set to 1 if the `K1`th results file was written in ASCII format.

`LOUTF`

Needs to be defined only if the program that is making the call to `INITPF` will also write an output file in the Abaqus results file format (for example, if results files are being merged into a single results file or if a results file is being converted from binary to ASCII format). In that case `LOUTF` should be set to 2 if the output file is to be written as a binary file or set to 1 if the output file is to be written as an ASCII file. This results file will be written with the file name extension `.fin`. See ["Accessing the results file information," Section 5.1.3](pt02ch05s01aus43.md), for a discussion of writing results files; see below for information on the naming of this file.

#### File naming conventions

The file extension is derived from the value of `LRUNIT(1,K1)`. If `LRUNIT(1,K1)` is 8, the file name will be constructed with the extension `fil`. Any other unit number will result in a file extension of `0nn`, where `nn` is the number assigned to `LRUNIT(1,K1)`. For example, if `LRUNIT(1,K1)` is 15, the file extension is `.015`. If an output file has been indicated by a nonzero value of `LOUTF`, its extension will be `.fin`.

For example, to read a file `xxxx.fil`, set `LRUNIT(1,K1)` to 8 and the character variable `FNAME` to `xxxx` using assignment or data statements. If desired, `FNAME` can include a directory specification, device name, or path. Operating system environment and shell variables will not be translated properly and, therefore, should not be used.

All error messages generated by Abaqus are written to FORTRAN unit 6. On most machines error messages will be printed by default directly to the screen if the program is run interactively. You can include an open statement for unit 6 in the main program to redirect messages to a file. If you wish to read or write to units other than those units specified in `LRUNIT`, OPEN statements for those units may have to be included in the program (depending upon the computer being used). Unit numbers of such auxiliary files should be greater than 100 to avoid any conflict with Abaqus internal files.

### `POSFIL` (determine position in a file)

The `POSFIL` utility routine is available only in Abaqus/Standard.

#### Interface

```
CALL POSFIL(NSTEP,NINC,ARRAY,JRCD)
```

#### Variables to be provided to the utility routine

`NSTEP`

Desired step. If this variable is set to 0, the first available step will be read.

`NINC`

Desired increment. If this variable is set to 0, the first available increment of the specified step will be read.

#### Variables returned from the utility routine

`ARRAY`

Real array containing the values of record 2000 from the results file for the requested step and increment.

`JRCD`

Return code (0 – specified increment found, 1 – specified increment not found). If the step and increment requested are not found in the results file, `POSFIL` will return an error and leave you positioned at the end of the results file.

#### Positioning with `POSFIL`

You may find it convenient to call `POSFIL` with both `NSTEP` and `NINC` set to 0 to skip over the information that is written to the results file at the beginning of an analysis (see ["Results file output format," Section 5.1.2](pt02ch05s01afi01.md)) and, thus, start reading from the first increment written to the file.

`POSFIL` cannot be used to move backward in the results file: you cannot use `POSFIL` to find a given increment in the file and then make a second call to `POSFIL` later to read an increment earlier than the first one found. If this is attempted, `POSFIL` will return an error indicating that the requested increment was not found.




