# 5.1.3 Accessing the results file information







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

##### **References**

- ["Accessing the results file: overview," Section 5.1.1](pt02ch05s01abo03.md)
- ["Results file output format," Section 5.1.2](pt02ch05s01afi01.md)
- ["Utility routines for accessing the results file," Section 5.1.4](pt02ch05s01abu01.md)

### Overview

The Abaqus results (`.fil`) file is written using internal data management routines to minimize I/O cost. A postprocessing program must use these same Abaqus data management routines to read the results file. The following utility routines must be called to obtain data from the Abaqus results file:
- `INITPF`
- `DBRNU`
- `DBFILE`
- `POSFIL`

You can also write a file in the format of the Abaqus results file by using the following utility subroutines:- `INITPF`
- `DBFILW`

The syntax of these utility subroutines is described in ["Utility routines for accessing the results file," Section 5.1.4](pt02ch05s01abu01.md).

### Reading floating point and integer variables

To read both floating point and integer variables in the records, the following coding can be used in the postprocessing program:

```
INCLUDE 'aba_param.inc'
      DIMENSION ARRAY(513), JRRAY(NPRECD,513)
      EQUIVALENCE (ARRAY(1),JRRAY(1,1))
```
With this technique, for example, the record key is available after each call to `DBFILE` with `LOP`=0 as
```
KEY =  JRRAY (1,2)
```
The use of `aba_param.inc` eliminates the need to have different versions of the code for single and double precision. The file `aba_param.inc` defines an appropriate `IMPLICIT REAL` statement and sets the value of `NPRECD` to 1 or 2, depending upon whether the machine uses single or double precision. The file `aba_param.inc` is referenced from the `site` subdirectory of the Abaqus installation when the postprocessing program is compiled and linked using the **abaqus make** utility (explained below).

### Linking the postprocessing program

The postprocessing program must be linked using the **make** parameter when running the Abaqus execution procedure (see ["Making user-defined executables and subroutines," Section 3.2.17](pt01ch03s02abx17.md)). To link properly, the postprocessing program cannot contain a FORTRAN PROGRAM statement. Instead, the program must begin with a FORTRAN SUBROUTINE with the name ABQMAIN. 

Compiling, linking, and running a postprocessing program consists of two steps. For example, if the name of the postprocessing program is `postproc.f`, use the following command to compile and link `postproc.f`: 

```
`abaqus make job=postproc`
```
The program must then be run using the command:
```
`abaqus postproc`
```

### Calling the utility subroutines for reading the results file

Subroutine `INITPF` must be called before any results file is accessed. This subroutine contains FORTRAN OPEN statements for all FORTRAN units assigned to results files through the call to `INITPF`; therefore, your code must not contain any OPEN statements for these units. Abaqus constructs a file name for a given unit based on information supplied as `LRUNIT(1,K1)` and `FNAME`, as discussed in ["Utility routines for accessing the results file," Section 5.1.4](pt02ch05s01abu01.md).

Subroutine `DBRNU` must also be called before reading the first results file and then again each time you need to change to reading another results file. This subroutine simply establishes the FORTRAN unit number of the results file being read; no information is returned. `DBRNU` can be called before or after `INITPF` but must be called before `DBFILE`.

Subroutine `DBFILE` is used to read each record from the results file. This subroutine will return one record at a time in the format described in ["Results file output format," Section 5.1.2](pt02ch05s01afi01.md).

#### Example

The following program reads all the von Mises stresses in the results file and obtains the maximum value. Then, it prints this value along with the element, section point, and integration point numbers where it occurred.

In this example FORTRAN unit 8 is used to read the results file, and the name of the results file is assumed to be `TEST.fil`. The results file is assumed to be a binary file, and only one results file will be read. Thus, `LRUNIT` is dimensioned as `LRUNIT(2,1)`; and in the call to the `INITPF` routine `NRU` is set to 1, `LRUNIT(1,1)` is set to 8, and `LRUNIT(2,1)` is set to 2. A new results file will not be written, so `LOUTF` is set to zero.

```
      SUBROUTINE ABQMAIN
C     Calculate the maximum von Mises stress and its location
C
      INCLUDE 'aba_param.inc'
      CHARACTER*80 FNAME
      DIMENSION ARRAY(513),JRRAY(NPRECD,513),LRUNIT(2,1)
      EQUIVALENCE (ARRAY(1),JRRAY(1,1))
C
C     File initialization
C
      FNAME='TEST'
      NRU=1
      LRUNIT(1,1)=8
      LRUNIT(2,1)=2
      LOUTF=0
      CALL INITPF(FNAME,NRU,LRUNIT,LOUTF)
      JUNIT=8
      CALL DBRNU(JUNIT)
C
C     Loop on all records in results file
C
      STRESS=0.
      DO 100 K1=1,99999
C
        CALL DBFILE(0,ARRAY,JRCD)
        IF(JRCD.NE.0)GO TO 110
        KEY=JRRAY(1,2)
C
        IF(KEY.EQ.1) THEN
C
C          Element header record:
C          extract element, sec pt, int pt numbers
C
           JEL=JRRAY(1,3)
           JPNT=JRRAY(1,4)
           JSPNT=JRRAY(1,5)
C
C     Stress invariant record for Abaqus/Standard
        ELSE IF(KEY.EQ.12)THEN
C     Stress invariant record for Abaqus/Explicit
        ELSE IF(KEY.EQ.75)THEN
C
C          Extract von Mises stress
C
           IF(ARRAY(3).GT.STRESS)THEN
              STRESS=ARRAY(3)
              KEL=JEL
              KPNT=JPNT
              KSPNT=JSPNT
           END IF
        END IF
C
 100  CONTINUE
 110  CONTINUE
C
      WRITE(6,120) KEL,KPNT,KSPNT,STRESS
 120  FORMAT(5X,'ELEMENT',I5,5X,'POINT',I4,5X,'SECTION POINT',
     1 I4,5X,'STRESS',1PG12.3)
      STOP
      END
```
See [Chapter 15, "Postprocessing of Abaqus Results," of the Abaqus Example Problems Guide](../exa/exa-link.md#exa-pst-userpostprocchap) for additional examples.

### Writing a file in the results file format

Subroutine `DBFILW` can be used to write a file in the format of the Abaqus results file to modify the file information or to add additional information before postprocessing. Subroutine `INITPF` must be called before `DBFILW`.

The file will be written to FORTRAN unit 9 with the extension `.fin`. Unit 9 is opened by Abaqus when `DBFILW` is first called; your coding must not open or redefine unit 9, but you must ensure that FORTRAN unit 9 is saved following the job.

["Joining data from multiple results files and converting file format: FJOIN," Section 15.1.2 of the Abaqus Example Problems Guide](../exa/exa-link.md#exa-pst-fjoin), contains an example of the use of subroutine `DBFILW` to merge specific records of discontinuous results files. Continuous results files are required for postprocessing purposes; if you have written a results file during an analysis and a new results file on the restart of the analysis without making the files continuous, they must be made continuous before postprocessing. ["Analysis of a cantilever subject to earthquake motion," Section 1.4.13 of the Abaqus Benchmarks Guide](../bmk/bmk-link.md#bmk-anl-cantilever), also shows the use of `DBFILW` for merging results files. Alternatively, results files can be merged using the **abaqus append** utility as described in ["Joining results (`.fil`) files," Section 3.2.14](pt01ch03s02abx14.md).

The `DBFILW` subroutine can also be used to convert the Abaqus results file from binary to ASCII format to transfer it from one computer system to another. Alternatively, this conversion can be done automatically by using the **abaqus ascfil** execution procedure, as described in ["ASCII translation of results (`.fil`) files," Section 3.2.13](pt01ch03s02abx13.md).




