# 6.2.1 Static stress analysis procedures: overview







A static stress procedure is one in which inertia effects are neglected. Several static stress analysis procedures are available in Abaqus/Standard: 

**Static analysis**: ["Static stress analysis," Section 6.2.2](pt03ch06s02at01.md), is used for stable problems and can include linear or nonlinear response.

**Eigenvalue buckling analysis**: ["Eigenvalue buckling prediction," Section 6.2.3](pt03ch06s02at02.md), is used to estimate the critical (bifurcation) load of “stiff” structures. It is a linear perturbation procedure.

**Unstable collapse and postbuckling analysis**: ["Unstable collapse and postbuckling analysis," Section 6.2.4](pt03ch06s02at03.md), is used to estimate the unstable, geometrically nonlinear collapse of a structure. The method can also be helpful in obtaining a solution in other types of unstable problems, and it is often suitable for limit load analyses.

**Quasi-static analysis**: ["Quasi-static analysis," Section 6.2.5](pt03ch06s02at04.md), is used to analyze the transient response of structures considering time-dependent material behavior (creep and swelling, viscoelasticity, and viscoplasticity). A quasi-static analysis can be linear or nonlinear.

**Direct cyclic analysis**: ["Direct cyclic analysis," Section 6.2.6](pt03ch06s02at05.md), is used to calculate the stabilized cyclic response of the structure directly. It uses a combination of Fourier series and time integration of the nonlinear material behavior to obtain the stabilized cyclic solution iteratively.

**Low-cycle fatigue analysis**: ["Low-cycle fatigue analysis using the direct cyclic approach," Section 6.2.7](pt03ch06s02at06.md), is used to predict progressive damage and failure for ductile bulk materials and/or to predict delamination/debonding growth at the interfaces in laminated composites based on the direct cyclic approach in conjunction with the damage extrapolation technique.



