# 20.2.7 aStudy.output()







### 20.2.7 ***aStudy*.output()**: Specify the source of parametric study results.

**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

This command should precede any results gather commands. It is used to specify from where the results of a parametric study will be gathered.

##### **Reference**

- ["Scripting parametric studies," Section 20.1.1](pt04ch20s01aus108.md)

### **Command: **

***aStudy*.output** (**file**=, **instance**=, **overlay**=, **request**=, **step**= , **frameValue**= | **inc**= | **mode**= )

### **Optional data: **

**file**

Set **file** equal to FIL or ODB to specify that results must be read from the results (`.fil`) file or output database (`.odb`) file.

If **file** is omitted from this command, the results will be read from the results (`.fil`) file.

**instance**

This option is applicable only if results are gathered from an output (`.odb`) database containing multiple instances.

Set **instance** equal to the name of the part instance for which results are to be gathered. This name must be enclosed in matching quotation marks.

If results are gathered for a set defined on the assembly, **instance** must not be specified in both this command and the **gather** command.

If **instance** is omitted from this command and an instance name is required to gather the results, it must be specified in the **gather** command.

**overlay**

This option is applicable only if results are gathered from an output (`.odb`) database. 

This option is used to control the trade-off between memory usage and execution speed. Set **overlay** equal to OFF (the default) or ON to specify whether the memory used for an output database should be overwritten. If memory usage is a problem, set **overlay** equal to ON to specify that the memory used for an output database must be overwritten after a **gather** is performed for the specific output database. If execution speed is more important than memory usage, set **overlay** equal to OFF to specify that memory must be allocated for each output database.

The **overlay** option affects your ability to separately manipulate the output database (`.odb`) file. When you set **overlay** equal to OFF, the file will remain open after accessing the results from the **gather** command, which may affect your ability to separately access or manipulate the file (to delete the file, for example). Set **overlay** equal to ON to separately access the `.odb` file after accessing the **gather** based results.

**request**

This option is applicable only if the results are to be gathered from the output (`.odb`) database.

Set **request** equal to FIELD or HISTORY to specify whether the results must be gathered from the field data or the history data in the output database.

If **request** is omitted from this command, the results will be gathered from the field data.

**step**

Set **step** equal to the analysis step number from which the results are to be gathered. 

If **step** is omitted from this command, it must be specified in the **gather** command.

##### **Optional and mutually exclusive data:**

**frameValue**

This option is applicable only if the results are to be gathered from the output (`.odb`) database.

Set **frameValue** equal to the step time or frequency value of the analysis increment in the analysis step specified from which the results are to be gathered. **frameValue** can also be set equal to the symbolic constant LAST to specify that results are to be gathered from the last increment of the step. If no results are available at the **frameValue** specified, a warning will be issued and the results will be gathered from the closest increment.

If **frameValue** is omitted from this command, the results are gathered from the last increment in the step or are gathered from the increment specified in the **gather** command.

**inc**

Set **inc** equal to the number of the analysis increment of the non-frequency analysis step specified from which the results are to be gathered. **inc** can also be set equal to the symbolic constant LAST to specify that results are to be gathered from the last increment of the step specified.

If **inc** is omitted from this command, the results are gathered from the last increment in the step or are gathered from the increment specified in the **gather** command.

This option is not valid for gathering history results from the output (`.odb`) database.

**mode**

Set **mode** equal to the mode number of the frequency analysis step specified from which the results are to be gathered across the parametric study variations.

If **mode** is omitted, the results are gathered from the mode specified in the **gather** command or are gathered from the first mode in the step.




