# 20.2.4 aStudy.execute()







### 20.2.4 ***aStudy*.execute()**: Execute the analysis of parametric study designs.

**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

This command is used to execute the analyses of the designs generated by a parametric study.

##### **Reference**

- ["Scripting parametric studies," Section 20.1.1](pt04ch20s01aus108.md)

### **Command: **

***aStudy*.execute** (*token*, **execOptions**= , *additional data*)

### **Tokens: **

ALL

Use this token to sequentially execute the analyses of all the designs of the parametric study. This option is the default.

DISTRIBUTED

Use this token to execute the analyses of all designs using the specified queue interfaces of the local and/or remote computers. A similar number of analyses will be distributed to each of the specified queues.

INTERACTIVE

Use this token to sequentially execute the analyses of all the designs of the parametric study in interactive mode. In this case the process pauses to prompt you for further execution instructions. The prompt allows you to specify the number of analyses to be executed, to execute the remaining analyses, to specify the number of analyses whose execution is to be skipped, or to skip all the remaining analyses.

### **Optional data: **

**execOptions**

Set **execOptions** equal to a character string of Abaqus execution options (refer to ["Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, and Abaqus/CFD execution," Section 3.2.2](pt01ch03s02abx02.md)) that are to be added to the Abaqus execution command when executing the analyses of the designs of the parametric study; this string must be enclosed in matching quotation marks.

##### **Additional data for DISTRIBUTED: **

### **Required data: **

**queues**

Set **queues** equal to the queue interface name or a sequence of queue interface names. If a single name is given, it must be enclosed in matching quotation marks. If a sequence of names is given, it must be enclosed in parentheses or brackets and contain queue interface names enclosed in matching quotation marks and separated by commas.

### **Optional data: **

**files**

Set **files** equal to the symbolic constant or a sequence of symbolic constants that identifies the file or files that must be returned to the local computer after remote execution. The sequence items must be separated by commas, and the sequence must be enclosed in parentheses or brackets.

The allowed symbolic constants are: `DAT`, `LOG`, `FIL`, `SEL`, `MSG`, `STA`, `ODB`, `IPM`, `RES`, `ABQ`, and `PAC`. The default value is **files** ` = (DAT, FIL, LOG, ODB, SEL)`.

##### **Defining queues and queue interfaces:**

Before being used for a distributed parametric study, queue interfaces must be defined within the **design_startup** portion of the Abaqus environment file. For example, to define a queue interface for an existing queue `short` on the remote computer `server`, the following entry in the environment file is required: 

```
def onDesignStartup():
    from par_Session import Queue 
    import os    

    # convenience assignment  
    SCRATCH = '/scratch/' + os.environ['USER']   

    # create remote queue interface  
    Queue(name='short_interface', hostName='server',
          driver='abaqus', queueName='short', directory=SCRATCH)
```
 If, in addition, a local queue is required, the entry must be expanded to: 
```
def onDesignStartup():
    from par_Session import Queue 
    import os  

    # convenience assignment 
    SCRATCH = '/scratch/' + os.environ['USER']   

    # create remote queue interface 
    Queue(name='short_interface', hostName='server',
          driver='abaqus', queueName='short', directory=SCRATCH) 

    # create local queue interface
    Queue(name='local_interface', driver='abaqus', 
          queueName='local')

queue_name="local" 
local="echo "./%S 1>%L 2>&1" | batch"
```




