# 20.2.3 aStudy.define()







### 20.2.3 ***aStudy*.define()**: Define parameters for parametric studies.

**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

This command is used to define the parameters specified for a parametric study.

##### **Reference**

- ["Scripting parametric studies," Section 20.1.1](pt04ch20s01aus108.md)

### **Command: **

***aStudy*.define** (*token*, *additional data*)

### **Tokens: **

CONTINUOUS

Use this token to indicate that the parameter is continuous valued.

DISCRETE

Use this token to indicate that the parameter is discrete valued.

PRINT

Use this token to print parameter definitions.

##### **Additional data for CONTINUOUS: **

### **Required data: **

**par**

Set **par** equal to the name of the parameter or the sequence of parameters being defined. If a single parameter is specified, it must be enclosed by matching quotation marks; for example, `'par1'`. If a list of parameters is specified, it must be given inside parentheses or brackets and must contain parameter names enclosed by matching quotation marks and separated by commas; for example, `('par1', 'par2', 'par3')` or `['par1', 'par2', 'par3']`.

### **Optional data: **

**domain**

Set **domain** equal to the minimum and maximum values of the parameter separated by a comma and enclosed by parentheses or brackets; for example, `(10., 20.)` or `[10., 20.]`. 

If **domain** is omitted from this command and the parameter is later sampled using a method that requires a domain definition, the domain must be specified in the **sample** command.

**reference**

Set **reference** equal to the reference value of the parameter.

If **reference** is omitted from this command and the parameter is later sampled using a method that requires a reference definition, the reference must be specified in the **sample** command.

##### **Additional data for DISCRETE: **

### **Required data: **

**par**

Set **par** equal to the name of the parameter or the list of parameters being defined. If a single parameter is specified, it must be enclosed by matching quotation marks; for example, `'par1'`. If a list of parameters is specified, it must be given inside parentheses or brackets and must contain parameter names enclosed by matching quotation marks and separated by commas; for example, `('par1', 'par2', 'par3')` or `['par1', 'par2', 'par3']`.

### **Optional data: **

**domain**

Set **domain** equal to the sequence of values that the parameter may have. The values must be separated by commas and enclosed by parentheses or brackets; for example, `(1., 2., 5., 3.)` or `[1., 2., 5., 3.]`.

If **domain** is omitted from this command and the parameter is later sampled using a method that requires a domain definition, the domain must be specified in the **sample** command.

**reference**

Set **reference** equal to the index in the sequence of parameter values. Indexing starts at zero, so that the first value of the sequence corresponds to index zero and the last value of the sequence corresponds to an index equal to the number of values in the sequence minus one.

If **reference** is omitted from this command and the parameter is later sampled using a method that requires a reference definition, the reference must be specified in the **sample** command.

##### **Additional data for PRINT: **

### **Optional data: **

**par**

Set **par** equal to the name of the parameter or the sequence of parameters whose definition is to be printed. If a single parameter is specified, it must be enclosed by matching quotation marks; for example, `'par1'`. If a sequence of parameters is specified, it must be given inside parentheses or brackets and must contain parameter names enclosed by matching quotation marks and separated by commas; for example, `('par1', 'par2', 'par3')` or `['par1', 'par2', 'par3']`.

If **par** is omitted, parameter definitions are printed for all parameters in the parametric study.




