# 13.2.3 Creating Abaqus optimization models







**Product: **Abaqus/CAE  

##### **References**

- ["Structural optimization: overview," Section 13.1.1](pt04ch13s01abo16.md)
- ["Understanding optimization," Section 18.3 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-opz-understanding)

### Overview

For each design cycle the optimization process:
- generates new material and element properties during topology optimization;
- modifies nodal coordinates during shape optimization;
- sends the modified model to an Abaqus analysis; and
- reads the results of the analysis.

### Preparing the Abaqus model

You should take care to ensure that your Abaqus model is supported by structural optimization. Any restrictions imposed by the use of structural optimization, such as the supported element types, apply only to the design area; regions outside the design area do not play a role in the optimization.
- You must ensure that your Abaqus model can be analyzed and produces the expected mechanical results before you attempt to optimize your model.
- You should account for nonlinearities only if your model is truly nonlinear; the optimization will be significantly less expensive computationally if your Abaqus model is linear. You may want to ensure that an optimization of a linear version of your model produces reasonable results before you introduce geometric or material nonlinearities.
- An optimization takes multiple design cycles to complete, and the time required to reach an optimized solution can be significant. As a result, you must configure your Abaqus model to minimize computational time; for example, by removing small details that are not important to the optimization.
- The Optimization Module does not support the use of parts and assemblies in the Abaqus input file. When you run an optimization task, the Optimization Module generates a flattened input file that does not use parts and assemblies.
- The Optimization Module reads data from the output database (`.odb`) files that are created during each design cycle. The Optimization Module requests data only from the end of each step. To minimize the size of the output database files, you should also request data only from the end of each step.

#### Support for analysis types

The following Abaqus analysis types are supported by topology, shape, and sizing optimization:
- Static stress/displacement, general analysis
- Static stress/displacement, linear perturbation analysis
- Extract natural frequencies and modal vectors

#### Support for geometric nonlinearities

You can specify that geometric nonlinearity should be accounted for only during static stress/displacement analyses. 

Elements that have limited stiffness, such as elements with hyperelastic material properties, can deform excessively during topology optimization in a nonlinear analysis. This deformation can lead to an adverse effect on the convergence and result in the termination of the analysis. You should be aware of this potential issue when applying topology optimization using hyperelastic materials.

Sizing optimization supports geometric nonlinearity only if the maximum elemental effective total strain for the design elements is less than 2%. Sizing optimization supports geometric nonlinearity outside the design area where any magnitude of total strain for an element is allowed. 

#### Support for multiple load cases

If your model is undergoing a sequence of loads, you can significantly reduce the computational cost by defining a multiple load case analysis within a single step.

#### Support for multiple models

A design response can include steps or load cases from multiple Abaqus models. You can incorporate multiple models into your optimization when linear perturbations about a base state are no longer sufficient as load cases. For example, you can simulate nonlinear load cases (which are not supported by Abaqus/CAE) by creating multiple copies of your nonlinear model and by creating a step in each model during which different loads and boundary conditions are applied. For a meaningful optimization, it is expected that each model will have the sameAbaqus/CAE geometry and the same mesh.  

#### Support for temperature loading

General topology and sizing optimization support constant temperature loading.

#### Support for acceleration loading

General topology optimization supports prescribed acceleration loading from
- gravity,
- rotational body forces, and
- centrifugal forces.

Coriolis forces are not supported.

#### Support for contact during the optimization

You can avoid contact in optimized regions of your model by defining geometric restrictions, such as casting or minimum member size restrictions. In some cases, you cannot specify the exact boundary conditions early in the design phase. In addition, nonlinear boundary conditions, such as contact definitions, can change if the Optimization Module changes the topology of the model. 

The optimization process is more efficient if you create an Abaqus model with the appropriate contact definitions and allow Abaqus to calculate the contact. The contact conditions are included in the optimization through the forces at the nodes and the stresses in the elements, and both topology and shape optimization permit contact conditions in the Abaqus model. 

You can define a contact surface directly on the edge of the design space in topology optimization. However, if the design edge belongs to a contact surface in shape optimization, you must invert the shape optimization algorithm by entering a negative growth scale factor. You may encounter convergence difficulties in your Abaqus model if you have a complex contact problem or if the optimization results in large changes in the model.

#### Restrictions on an Abaqus model used for topology optimization

Topology optimization determines the optimal material distribution in the design space, given the prescribed conditions applied to the model along with the objective function and constraints. Your optimization must apply appropriate constraints and restrictions; otherwise, the Optimization Module can extensively alter the topology of the component. The resolution of the structure that has been optimized with topology optimization is very dependent on the discretization. A fine mesh produces a structure with a higher resolution than a coarse mesh; however, it will also substantially increase the processing time required. You must determine the appropriate compromise between structural resolution and processing time.

During topology optimization the Optimization Module  modifies the material definition of the elements in the design area. As a result, you must provide the initial density of the materials in the design area, even if it is not required by the Abaqus analysis.

#### Restrictions on an Abaqus model used for shape optimization

Abaqus performs a shape optimization by modifying the boundaries or surfaces of a component. The optimization uses the stress condition to calculate new coordinates for nodes on the surface of the component and then adjusts the underlying mesh accordingly. The mesh quality must be sufficient to ensure that the analysis results are mostly unchanged by the movement of the surface nodes. High stress gradients must not be present within an element.

When the Optimization Module is performing a shape optimization on a shell structure, it optimizes the form of the shell structure and not its thickness. The nodal position along shell edges can be modified; however, Abaqus does not modify the shell definition.

#### Restrictions on an Abaqus model used for sizing optimization

Abaqus performs a sizing optimization by modifying the thickness of shell elements in the design region. The element thickness must be uniform, and only single-layered shells are supported. Prescribed displacements are allowed in a static stress/displacement analysis; however, they are not supported in a frequency analysis.

### Supported materials in the design area

The material models supported by structural optimization in the elements in the design area depend on the type of optimization—condition-based topology optimization, general topology optimization, or shape optimization.

#### Materials supported by condition-based topology optimization

Condition-based topology optimization in Abaqus supports linear elastic, plastic, and hyperelastic material models.

##### Support for linear elastic material models

The following linear elastic material models are supported by condition-based topology optimization:
- Linear elastic materials with isotropic behavior.
- Linear elastic materials with fully anisotropic behavior.
- Linear elastic materials with orthotropic behavior. All of the behavior models are supported, except for orthotropic shear behavior for warping elements and coupled and uncoupled traction behavior for cohesive elements.

##### Support for plastic material models

Metal plasticity material properties—the plastic part of the material model for elastic-plastic materials that use the Mises or Hill yield surface—are supported by condition-based topology optimization. Isotropic hardening is supported; however, cyclic loading is not supported—each material point can be unloaded only once and should not become elastoplastic again. 

##### Support for hyperelastic material models

All of the hyperelastic material models are supported by condition-based topology optimization, except for the Marlow material model and the hyperelastic material models with test data.

##### Support for temperature and field variable dependency

Condition-based topology optimization supports materials that have temperature and field variable dependency.

#### Materials supported by general topology optimization

General topology optimization in Abaqus supports linear elastic, plastic, and hyperelastic material models.

##### Support for linear elastic material models

The following linear elastic material models are supported by general topology optimization:
- Linear elastic materials with isotropic behavior.
- Linear elastic materials with fully anisotropic behavior.
- Linear elastic materials with orthotropic behavior. All of the behavior models are supported, except for orthotropic shear behavior for warping elements and coupled and uncoupled traction behavior for cohesive elements.

##### Support for plastic material models

Metal plasticity material properties—the plastic part of the material model for elastic-plastic materials that use the Mises or Hill yield surface—are supported by general topology optimization. Isotropic hardening is supported; however, cyclic loading is not supported—each material point can be unloaded only once and should not become elastoplastic again. 

##### Support for hyperelastic material models

All of the hyperelastic material models are supported by general topology optimization, except for the Marlow material model and the hyperelastic material models with test data.

##### Support for temperature and field variable dependency

Materials that have temperature and field variable dependency are supported by general topology optimization.

#### Material support in shape optimization

All of the Abaqus material models are supported by shape optimization.

#### Material support in sizing optimization

Nonlinear materials in the design area are not supported by sizing optimization. All of the Abaqus material models, including nonlinear materials, are supported outside the design area.

### Support for coordinate systems

In most cases, you will use the same coordinate system to define your model and the optimization task. However, the Optimization Module allows you refer to a different coordinate system when you are defining a design response.

### Supported element types

The Abaqus elements that are supported as design elements by topology and shape optimization are listed in [Table 13.2.3--1](pt04ch13s02aus89.md#usb-aopt-twodsupport) through [Table 13.2.3--4](pt04ch13s02aus89.md#usb-aopt-additionalsupport). The tables also list the Abaqus elements that support the reaction and internal force design responses. The shell elements that are supported as design elements by sizing optimization are listed in [Table 13.2.3--5](pt04ch13s02aus89.md#usb-aopt-3dshellsupport). Unsupported elements are ignored during optimization and remain unchanged. Structural optimization does not place any restrictions on the type of elements that you use outside the design area.

#### Supported two-dimensional solid elements

Topology optimization (both condition-based and general) and shape optimization support the two-dimensional solid elements listed in [Table 13.2.3--1](pt04ch13s02aus89.md#usb-aopt-twodsupport).

**Table 13.2.3–1** Supported two-dimensional solid elements.
| CPE31, CPE3H, CPE41, CPE4H, CPE4I, CPE4IH, CPE4R1, CPE4RH, |
| --- |
| CPE6H, CPE6M, CPE6MH |
| CPE81, CPE8H, CPE8R1, CPE8RH |
| CPS31, CPS41, CPS4I, CPS4R1, CPS61, CPS6M, CPS6MT, CPS81. CPS8R1 |
| CPEG3, CPEG3H, CPEG4, CPEG4H, CPEG4I, CPEG4IH, CPEG4R, CPEG4RH, CPEG6, CPEG6H, CPEG6M, CPEG6MH, CPEG8, CPEG8H, CPEG8R, CPEG8RH |
| CPE3T, CPE4T, CPE4HT, CPE4RT, CPE4RHT, CPE6MT, CPE6MHT, CPE8T, CPE8HT, CPE8RT, CPE8RHT |
| CPS3T, CPS4T, CPS4RT, CPS8T, CPS8RT |
| CPEG3T, CPEG3HT, CPEG4T, CPEG4RT, CPEG4RHT, CPEG6MT, CPEG6MHT, CPEG8T, CPEG8HT, CPEG8RHT |
| 1 Can include reaction and internal force design responses. |

#### Supported three-dimensional solid elements

Topology optimization (both condition-based and general) and shape optimization support the three-dimensional solid elements listed in [Table 13.2.3--2](pt04ch13s02aus89.md#usb-aopt-threedsupport).

**Table 13.2.3–2** Supported three-dimensional solid elements.
| C3D41, C3D4H, C3D81 |
| --- |
| C3D61, C3D6H |
| C3D8H, C3D8I, C3D8IH, C3D8R1, C3D8RH |
| C3D101, C3D10H, C3D10M, C3D10MH |
| C3D151, C3D15H |
| C3D201, C3D20H, C3D20R1, C3D20RH |
| C3D4T, C3D6T, C3D8T, C3D8HT, C3DHRT, C3D8RHT, C3D10MT, C3D10MHT, C3D20T, C3D20HT, C3D20RT, C3D20RHT |
| 1 Can include reaction and internal force design responses. |

#### Supported axisymmetric solid elements

Topology optimization (both condition-based and general) and shape optimization support the axisymmetric solid elements listed in [Table 13.2.3--3](pt04ch13s02aus89.md#usb-aopt-axisupport).

**Table 13.2.3–3** Supported axisymmetric solid elements.
| CAX31, CAX3H, CAX41, CAX4H, CAX4I, CAX4IH, CAX4R1, CAX4RH |
| --- |
| CAX81, CAX8H, CAX8R1, CAX8RH |
| CGAX3, CGAX3H, CGAX4, CGAX4H, CGAX4R, CGAX4RH, CGAX8, CGAX8H, CGAX8R, CGAX8RH |
| CAX3T, CAX4T, CAX4HT, CAX4RT, CAX4RHT, CAX8T, CAX8HT, CAX8RT, CAX8RHT |
| CGAX3T, CGAX3HT, CGAX4T, CGAX4HT, CGAX4RT, CGAX4RHT, CGAX8T, CGAX8HT, CGAX8RT, CGAX8RHT |
| 1 Can include reaction and internal force design responses. |

#### Additional supported elements

[Table 13.2.3--4](pt04ch13s02aus89.md#usb-aopt-additionalsupport) lists the general membrane, three-dimensional conventional shell, and beam elements that are supported by optimization.

**Table 13.2.3–4** Additional supported elements
| General membrane elements (topology and shape optimization) | M3D31, M3D41, M3D4R1, M3D61, M3D81, M3D8R1 |
| --- | --- |
| Three-dimensional conventional shell elements (topology optimization only) | STRI3, S3, S3R, STRI65, S4, S4R, S4R5, S8R, S8R5, S8RT |
| Three-dimensional conventional shell elements (shape optimization only) | STRI31, S31, S3R1, S41, S4R1, S8R1 |
| Beam elements (shape optimization only) | B212, B21H2, B312, B31H2 |
| 1 Can include reaction and internal force design responses. |
| 2 You can include beam elements in shape optimization only to define a neighboring component that is used to restrict the movement of nodes in the optimized region. |

#### Supported three-dimensional conventional shell elements

Sizing optimization supports only the three-dimensional conventional shell elements listed in [Table 13.2.3--5](pt04ch13s02aus89.md#usb-aopt-3dshellsupport). 

**Table 13.2.3–5** Supported three-dimensional conventional shell elements.
| S3, S3R, S4, S4R, S8R |
| --- |
| STRI651 |
| 1 You must request that rotational degrees of freedom be written to the output database. |




