# 20.2.9 aStudy.report()







### 20.2.9 ***aStudy*.report()**: Report parametric study results.

**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

This command is used to report results gathered across the designs of a parametric study.

##### **Reference**

- ["Scripting parametric studies," Section 20.1.1](pt04ch20s01aus108.md)

### **Command: **

***aStudy*.report** (*token*, **results**= , **par**= , **designSet**= , **variations**=, **truncation**= , *additional data*)

### **Tokens: **

FILE

Use this token to specify that results are to be written to an ASCII file as a table with the relevant headings.

PRINT

Use this token to specify that results are to be printed as a table with the relevant headings. Since the results are printed to the default output device (the screen), you may wish to limit the number of columns in a table so as to make the table readable.

XYPLOT

Use this token to specify that results are to be written to an ASCII file as a table without headings. This table can subsequently be read by the Visualization module in Abaqus/CAE to display *X–Y* plots of result and parameter values.

### **Required data: **

**results**

Set **results** equal to the sequence of result names to be reported; this sequence must be enclosed by parentheses or brackets. For example, `results=('e33_sinv.1', 'e52_strain', 'n25_u.3')`, where `'e33_sinv.1'` is the Mises stress of element 33 (Mises is the first component of the SINV record), `'e52_strain'` are all the strain components of element 52, and `'n25_u.3'` is the third component of displacement of node 25. This example assumes that the three results above were gathered in previous **gather** commands by requesting the SINV, E, and U variable identifier keys, respectively.

### **Optional data: **

**par**

Set **par** equal to the name of the parameter or the sequence of parameters to be included in the report table. If a single parameter is specified, it must be enclosed by matching quotation marks; for example, `'par1'`. If a sequence of parameters is specified, it must be given inside parentheses or brackets and must contain parameter names enclosed by matching quotation marks and separated by commas; for example, `('par1', 'par2', 'par3')` or `['par1', 'par2', 'par3']`.

If **par** is omitted, all parameters in the parametric study are included in the report table.

**designSet**

Set **designSet** equal to the name of the design set whose results are to be included in the report table; this name must be enclosed by matching quotation marks.

If **designSet** is omitted, results for all design sets in the parametric study are included in the report table.

**variations**

Set **variations** equal to ON to indicate that the first column of the report table must show the names of the designs being reported. Set **variations** equal to OFF to indicate that the names of the designs being reported are not to be given in the first column of the report table.

If **variations** is omitted, the column of design names is not included in the report table.

**truncation**

Set **truncation** equal to ON to indicate that the data of the report table must be reported with limited precision. Set **truncation** equal to OFF to indicate that the data of the report table must be reported with full precision.

If **truncation** is omitted, the data of the report table are reported with limited precision.

##### **Additional data for FILE and XYPLOT: **

### **Required data: **

**file**

Set **file** equal to the name of the file to which the report table is to be written. The file name must be enclosed by matching quotation marks.




