# 40.1.1 Contact modeling with elements







Abaqus/Standard offers a variety of contact elements that can be used when contact between two bodies cannot be simulated with the surface-based contact approach ([Chapter 36, "Defining Contact Interactions](pt09ch36.md)”). These elements include the following:

**Gap contact elements**: Mechanical and thermal contact between two nodes is modeled with gap elements (["Gap contact elements," Section 40.2.1](pt09ch40s02alm64.md)). For example, these elements can be used to model the contact between a piping system and its supports. They can also be used to model an inextensible cable that supports only tensile loads. 

**Tube-to-tube contact elements**: Contact between two pipes or tubes is modeled using tube-to-tube contact elements (["Tube-to-tube contact elements," Section 40.3.1](pt09ch40s03alm65.md)) in conjunction with slide lines. These elements can, for example, be used to simulate the process of running tubular components into an oil well (drill rod or J-tube analysis). They might also be used to simulate a catheter being inserted into a blood vessel.

**Slide line contact elements**: Finite-sliding contact between two axisymmetric structures that may undergo asymmetric deformations can be modeled using slide line contact elements (["Slide line contact elements," Section 40.4.1](pt09ch40s04alm66.md)) in conjunction with user-defined slide lines. Slide line elements can, for example, be used to model threaded connectors.

**Rigid surface contact elements**: Contact between an analytical rigid surface and an axisymmetric deformable body that may undergo asymmetric deformations can be modeled with rigid surface contact elements (["Rigid surface contact elements," Section 40.5.1](pt09ch40s05alm67.md)). For example, rigid surface contact elements might be used to model the contact between a rubber seal and a much stiffer structure.



