# 4.1 An overview of layout managers







A layout manager places its children in a certain arrangement in its interior. Layout managers use a combination of layout hints and packing styles to determine how to place and size their children. Layout managers in the Abaqus GUI Toolkit calculate relative sizes and relative positions, as opposed to absolute coordinates. This relative approach accounts automatically for changes such as different font sizes and window resizing. 

The following layout managers are available in the Abaqus GUI Toolkit:

**`FXHorizontalFrame`**

Arranges widgets horizontally. For more information, see ["Horizontal and vertical frames," Section 4.3](pt03ch04s03.md).

**`FXVerticalFrame`**

Arranges widgets vertically. For more information, see ["Horizontal and vertical frames," Section 4.3](pt03ch04s03.md).

**`AFXVerticalAligner`**

Vertically aligns the first child of its children. For more information, see ["Vertical alignment for composite children," Section 4.4](pt03ch04s04.md).

**`FXPacker`**

Arranges widgets in a general manner. For more information, see ["General-purpose layout managers," Section 4.5](pt03ch04s05.md).

**`AFXDialog`**

Same capabilities as `FXPacker`. For more information, see ["General-purpose layout managers," Section 4.5](pt03ch04s05.md).

**`FXGroupBox`**

Same capabilities as `FXPacker` but allows a titled border. For more information, see ["General-purpose layout managers," Section 4.5](pt03ch04s05.md).

**`FXMatrix`**

Arranges widgets in rows and columns. For more information, see ["Row and column layout manager," Section 4.6](pt03ch04s06.md).

**`FXSplitter`**

Splits an area vertically or horizontally, and allows you to resize the areas. For more information, see ["Resizable regions," Section 4.7](pt03ch04s07.md).

**`FXSwitcher`**

Swaps children on top of each other (rotating regions). For more information, see ["Rotating regions," Section 4.8](pt03ch04s08.md).

**`FXTabBook`**

Displays one tab, or one page, of widgets at a time. The user selects the tab to view by clicking a tab button. For more information, see ["Tab books," Section 4.9](pt03ch04s09.md).




