# 6.8 Receiving notification of kernel data changes







This section describes how the GUI can be notified when kernel objects and custom kernel objects are modified outside the GUI process. The following topics are covered:
- ["Automatically registering a query on kernel objects," Section 6.8.1](pt04ch06s08.md#cus-com-commands-notifyofkernel-autoregister)
- ["Manually registering a query on kernel objects," Section 6.8.2](pt04ch06s08.md#cus-com-commands-notifyofkernel-manualregister)
- ["Using `registerQuery` on `kernelAccess` proxy objects," Section 6.8.3](pt04ch06s08.md#cus-com-commands-notifyofkernel-registerissues)
- ["Recognizing when custom kernel data change," Section 6.8.4](pt04ch06s08.md#cus-com-commands-notifyofkernel-custom)

### 6.8.1 Automatically registering a query on kernel objects

Queries provide a mechanism that allows the GUI process to be notified when data in the kernel change. ["Keeping the GUI and commands up-to-date," Section 6.5.3](pt04ch06s05.md#cus-app-commands-gui-uptodate), describes how you use the *registerQuery* argument of the `AFXGuiCommand` constructor. The *registerQuery* argument is a Boolean flag that specifies whether to register a query automatically on the object being edited by the specified kernel command. If the kernel object specified in the ` AFXGuiCommand` constructor changes, the infrastructure updates the keywords in the GUI with the latest values. As a result, you do not need to register a query explicitly. By default, *registerQuery*= False, and the query is not automatically registered.

For example, 

```
cmd = AFXGuiCommand(mode,'setValues', mdb.models[%s].parts[%s], 
    True)
```
In this example, if the user changes the current part, the path to the `setValues` method is updated to reflect the new current part. As a result, when the user clicks **OK** to commit a customized dialog box, the mode issues a `setValues` command that modifies the current part.

### 6.8.2 Manually registering a query on kernel objects

For objects not directly related to a command, such as a repository, you may wish to register a query yourself. You can register a query on an Abaqus/CAE object using the `registerQuery` method. This method takes a callback function as an argument. When the object upon which the query is registered changes, the infrastructure automatically calls the function supplied in the ` registerQuery` method. For example, 

```
from abaqusGui import *

def onPartsChanged():
    print 'The parts repository changed.'
    keys = mdb.models['Model-1'].parts.keys() 
    print 'The new keys are:', keys

mdb.models['Model-1'].parts.registerQuery(onPartsChanged)
```
In the previous example, if a part is created, deleted, renamed, or edited, the `onPartsChanged` method will be called.

The `registerQuery` method takes an optional second argument that determines whether or not the callback is called when the query is first registered. By default, this argument is True, and the callback will be called when the query is first registered. If you specify False as the second argument, the query callback is not called when the query is first registered. Delaying the query callback can prevent errors in certain situations; for more information, see ["Using `registerQuery` on `kernelAccess` proxy objects," Section 6.8.3](pt04ch06s08.md#cus-com-commands-notifyofkernel-registerissues). 

Since registered queries create “traffic” between the kernel and GUI processes, you should unregister queries when you do not need them. To unregister a query, use the `unregisterQuery` method and pass the same arguments that you used in the `registerQuery` method. In most cases, you register queries within the `show` method that you write for your dialog box that needs the queries. Similarly, you unregister queries within the `hide` method that you write for your dialog box. If you do not unregister a query and the query fires when the dialog box is not posted, the application may abort if the callback tries to modify a widget in the dialog box. 

If the user creates, deletes, renames, or edits a part in the following example, the application will call the `onPartsChanged` method and update the dialog box:

```
class MyDialog(AFXDataDialog):

    ...

    def onPartsChanged(self):

        # Code to update the part list
        # in the dialog box

    def show(self):

        from kernelAccess import mdb
        mdb.models['Model-1'].parts.registerQuery(
            self.onPartsChanged)
        AFXDataDialog.show(self)

    def hide(self):

        from kernelAccess import mdb
        mdb.models['Model-1'].parts.unregisterQuery(
            self.onPartsChanged)
        AFXDataDialog.hide(self)
```

### 6.8.3 Using `registerQuery` on `kernelAccess` proxy objects

It is possible to call the `registerQuery` method on a `kernelAccess` module proxy object instead of the `abaqusGui` proxy object. However, internally the query is always registered on the `abaqusGui` proxy object. The two kinds of proxy objects are not always perfectly synchronized. In most cases, this will not matter. However, it can cause a problem if the query is registered while a change is being made on the kernel. For example, 

```
from kernelAccess import mdb

def onPartsChanged():
    print 'The parts repository changed.'
    keys = mdb.models['Model-1'].parts.keys() # OK
    print 'The new keys are:', keys
    if keys:
       mdb.models['Model-1'].parts[keys[0]].registerQuery(onPartsChanged) # Not OK
       # Internally the registerQuery method will be called on abaqusGui.mdb...

mdb.models['Model-1'].parts.registerQuery(onPartsChanged)
```
If a `changeKey` command that affects the names in the parts repository is subsequently issued, the above example will fail. The keys (part names) are obtained using the `kernelAccess mdb` proxy object and contain the changed name. However, the `registerQuery` method—based on the `abaqusGui` proxy object—does not see the new names until the `changeKey` command is completed. The `registerQuery` on the newly named part object (using `keys()[0]`) is being called within the callback, before the `changeKey` command is completed, and the callback is using the new name. Since the `abaqusGui` proxy for the parts repository has not yet been updated, a `Keyerror` is raised. 

Run the above example in the GUI, create a part, then enter the following in the command line interface (CLI):

```
>>> mdb.models['Model-1'].parts.changeKey('Part-1', 'ROD')
```
You will get the following error:
```
Traceback (most recent call last):
 File "*path and filename of the example script*", 
line 9, in onPartsChanged
    mdb.models['Model-1].parts[partNames[0]].registerQuery
(onPartsChanged) # Not OK
KeyError: 'ROD'
```
The error can cause Abaqus/CAE to stop responding. Setting the second argument on `registerQuery` to False prevents the callback from being called immediately and prevents this potential error.

### 6.8.4 Recognizing when custom kernel data change

To receive notification in the GUI of changes made to custom kernel objects, those kernel objects must make use of special classes provided by the `customKernel` module. The `customKernel` module provides the following special classes, all of which are capable of notifying the GUI when the contents of the class changes:
- `CommandRegister` allows you to create general classes. For more information, see ["CommandRegister class," Section 5.6.3 of the Abaqus Scripting User's Guide](../cmd/cmd-link.md#cmd-use-extendingacl-commandregister).
- `RepositorySupport` allows you to create repositories below other repositories. For more information, see ["RepositorySupport," Section 5.6.6 of the Abaqus Scripting User's Guide](../cmd/cmd-link.md#cmd-use-extendingacl-abaqus-repository).
- `RegisteredDictionary` allows you to create custom dictionaries. For more information, see ["Registered dictionaries," Section 5.6.7 of the Abaqus Scripting User's Guide](../cmd/cmd-link.md#cmd-use-extendingacl-dictionaries).
- `RegisteredList` allows you to create custom lists. For more information, see ["Registered lists," Section 5.6.8 of the Abaqus Scripting User's Guide](../cmd/cmd-link.md#cmd-use-extendingacl-lists).
- `RegisteredTuple` allows you to create custom tuples. For more information, see ["Registered tuples," Section 5.6.9 of the Abaqus Scripting User's Guide](../cmd/cmd-link.md#cmd-use-extendingacl-tuples).

For more information on the `customKernel` module, see ["Extending the Abaqus Scripting Interface," Section 5.6 of the Abaqus Scripting User's Guide](../cmd/cmd-link.md#cmd-use-extendingacl).




