# 8.4 Switching to a GUI module







When the user selects a module from the **Module** list in the context bar, the GUI infrastructure does the following:
- Calls the `deactivate` method of the current GUI module.
- Calls the `activate` method of the GUI module selected by the user.

You can write your own ` activate` or `deactivate` methods if you need to perform any special processing when entering or leaving a module. If you need to issue a command to the kernel when the user changes modules, you must use the `sendCommandString` method of the `AFXModuleGui` object to issue the command. If you do not use the `sendCommandString` method, the application may hang while trying to process the command. You should enclose the statements that call the `sendCommandString` method in a `try` block to catch any exceptions generated by the kernel command.

To switch to a GUI module using a script, you can use the `switchModule` method. For example, if you want to switch to your module upon application startup, you can add the following line to the application startup file:

```
switchModule('My Module')
```
This line should appear just before the ` app.run()` statement.

You can use the `setSwitchModuleHook`(* function*) method to set a callback function that will be invoked when the user switches into a GUI module. Every time the user switches into a GUI module, your function will be called and the name of the module will be passed into the function. For example,  

```
def onModuleSwitch(moduleName): 
    if moduleName == 'Part':  
       # Do part module tasks 
    elif moduleName == 'Mesh': 
       # Do mesh module tasks 
    etc.

setSwitchModuleHook(onModuleSwitch)
```



