# 11.4 Installation







You can use a simpler syntax to start an application that has been installed at a site. Installing an application involves the following steps: 
- Add an entry to the `*abaqus_dir*/SMA/site/abaqus.app` file, where *abaqus_dir* is the name of the directory in which Abaqus is installed. To determine the location of *abaqus_dir* at your site, type `abaqus whereami` at the operating system prompt. The format of entries in the `abaqus.app` file is ``` *applicationName* cae | viewer -custom *startupScript* ``` where *applicationName* is the name that the user must specify on the command line to start the application. - The second parameter determines the type of token that the application will check out---`cae` or `viewer`. - *startupScript* is the name of the startup script without any file extension. The script must reside in a directory specified in the `PYTHONPATH` environment variable. *applicationName* and *startupScript* can be the same.
- Edit the `*abaqus_dir*/SMA/site/abaqus.aev` file. You must add the directory that contains the customization script to the definition of the `PYTHONPATH` environment variable. By convention, customization scripts are located in directories underneath `*abaqus_dir*/customApps`. You should add your directory near to the end of the `PYTHONPATH` definition, just prior to the current directory `(.)`. This will ensure that you do not override any existing settings in the `PYTHONPATH` definition. To keep the path to your application portable and generic, you should use an environment variable to specify the root of the path. For a standard Abaqus installation, the `$ABA_HOME` environment variable refers to the same directory as *abaqus_dir*. As a result, you can use the `$ABA_HOME` environment variable to specify the directory that contains your customization script; for example, ``` $ABA_HOME/customApps/myApp ``` For example, to include the `myApp` directory shown above in the `PYTHONPATH`, you should change the `PYTHONPATH` definition in `abaqus.aev` from this ``` PYTHONPATH $ABA_HOME/cae/Python/Lib:$ABA_HOME/cae/Python/Obj: $ABA_HOME/cae/exec/lbr:.:$PYTHONPATH ``` to this ``` PYTHONPATH $ABA_HOME/cae/Python/Lib:$ABA_HOME/cae/Python/Obj: $ABA_HOME/cae/exec/lbr:$ABA_HOME/customApps/myApp: .:$PYTHONPATH ```
- There are syntax differences between UNIX systems and Windows systems. By default, Abaqus uses UNIX syntax and automatically converts the UNIX syntax to Windows syntax if the application is run on a Windows platform. However, if you need to specify the drive letter of your path on a Windows system, you must use Windows syntax. To use Windows syntax, you must make the following changes to the entire `PYTHONPATH` line: | UNIX | Windows | | --- | --- | | `:` | `;` | | `/` | `\` | | `$*NAME*` | `%*NAME*%` | The following example shows an `abaqus.aev` file that refers to a drive letter and has been modified to run on a Windows system: ``` ABA_PATH $ABA_HOME:$ABA_HOME/cae PYTHONPATH %ABA_HOME%\cae\Python\Lib;%ABA_HOME%\cae\Python\Obj; %ABA_HOME%\cae\exec\lbr;d:\boltApp1;.;%PYTHONPATH% ABA_LIBRARY_PATH $ABA_HOME/cae/ABA_SELECT: $ABA_HOME/cae/exec/lbr:$ABA_HOME/cae/Python/Obj/lbr: $ABA_HOME/cae/External/Acis:$ABA_HOME/cae/External: $ABA_HOME/cae/External/ebt:$ABA_HOME/exec ``` Use the following syntax to start your application: ``` abaqus applicationName ```




