# C.2 Setting the documentation URL after installation







If you install Abaqus products before installing Abaqus HTML documentation or if you do not specify the URL for HTML documentation during the product installation, you must add the URL to the `abaqus_v6.env` and `url.js` files.

### C.2.1 Setting the **doc_root** parameter in the `abaqus_v6.env` file

The documentation URL is required in the `abaqus_v6.env` file to provide access to the HTML documentation from Abaqus. The `abaqus_v6.env` file is located in the `*abaqus_dir*/6.14-*n*/SMA/site/` directory, where *abaqus_dir* is the Abaqus parent directory and *n* refers to the Abaqus update. The required parameter definition is as follows:
- HTML and PDF documentation installation with web server ``` doc_root="http://*computername*:*port_number*/v6.14" ``` where *computername* is the fully qualified domain name of the web server and *port_number* is the port number used by the web server (if required). For example, a valid parameter definition is ``` doc_root="http://willow.xyz.com:2080/v6.14" ```
- HTML and PDF documentation installation with no web server ``` doc_root="file:///*simulia_dir*/Documentation/docs/ v6.14/index.html" ``` where *simulia_dir* is the HTML documentation installation parent directory. For example, valid parameter definitions are **Linux platforms** ``` doc_root="file:///usr/local/SIMULIA/Documentation/docs/ v6.14/index.html" ``` **Windows platforms** ``` doc_root="file:///d:/SIMULIA/Documentation/docs/ v6.14/index.html" ```
- PDF-only documentation installation (no web server). In this case you must set the values of two parameters as follows: ``` doc_root_type="pdf" doc_root="*simulia_dir*" ``` where *simulia_dir* is the path to the installation base directory.

### C.2.2 Setting the documentation URL in the `url.js` file

The documentation URL is required in the `url.js` file to enable links from help windows in Abaqus/CAE to associated topics in the Abaqus HTML documentation. The `url.js` file is located in the `*abaqus_dir*/6.14-*n*/Help/redirects` directory, where *abaqus_dir* is the Abaqus parent directory and *n* refers to the Abaqus update. The line in the `url.js` file should have the following form:
- HTML documentation installation with web server ``` var baseURL="http://*computername*:*port_number*/v6.14/books/"; ``` where *computername* is the fully qualified domain name of the web server and *port_number* is the port number used by the web server (if required). For example, a valid definition is ``` var baseURL="http://willow.xyz.com:2080/v6.14/books/"; ```
- HTML documentation installation with no web server ``` var baseURL="file:///*simulia_dir*/Documentation/docs/ v6.14/books/"; ``` where *simulia_dir* is the HTML documentation installation parent directory. For example, valid definitions are **Linux platforms** ``` var baseURL="file:///usr/local/SIMULIA/Documentation/docs/ v6.14/books/"; ``` **Windows platforms** ``` var baseURL="file:///d:/SIMULIA/Documentation/docs/ v6.14/books/"; ```




