# C.1 Using an existing non-Abaqus web server







When you install Abaqus documentation and you choose to use an existing non-Abaqus web server, you must configure your server manually to access the HTML (and PDF) documentation. If you want to access the HTML documentation from the **Start** menu (Windows platforms only), you must modify the `documentation.htm` file after you configure the server (see ["Setting the documentation URL in the `documentation.htm` file," Section C.1.2](ap03s01.md#sgb-chp-web-server-start)).

### C.1.1 Configuring an existing non-Abaqus web server

You can configure an existing non-Abaqus web server to access the Abaqus HTML documentation using the following procedures. For the latest information about non-Abaqus web server configurations, see “How to install Abaqus HTML documentation using an existing web server” in the Dassault Systmes Knowledge Base at [www.3ds.com/support/knowledge-base](http://www.3ds.com/support/knowledge-base).

**Linux platforms**

1. Install the Abaqus HTML documentation in the SIMULIA parent directory (see ["Installation procedures," Section 2.1](ch02s01.md)).
2. Create an alias in your web server's configuration file for the root directory of the HTML documentation. For example, on an Apache web server you must add ``` Alias /v6.14 "*simulia_dir*/Documentation/docs/v6.14" ``` where *simulia_dir* refers to the HTML documentation installation parent directory.
3. Create an alias in your web server's configuration file for the Texis executable. For example, on an Apache web server you must add ``` ScriptAlias /texis/ "*simulia_dir*/Documentation/scripts/texis/" ```
4. Restart your web server to reread the web server's configuration file.
5. Access the Abaqus HTML documentation with the following URL: ``` http://*computername*:*port_number*/v6.14 ``` where *computername* is the fully qualified domain name of your web server and *port_number* is the port number that your web server is running on (`:*port_number*` needs to be specified only if your web server is not running on the default port of 80).

**Windows platforms**

1. Install the Abaqus HTML documentation in the SIMULIA parent directory. The recommended location for the SIMULIA parent directory is `C:\SIMULIA`.
2. Create an alias in your web server's configuration file for the root directory of the HTML documentation. For example, on an Apache web server you must add ``` Alias /v6.14 "*simulia_dir*/Documentation/docs/v6.14" ``` where *simulia_dir* refers to the HTML documentation installation parent directory.
3. Create an alias in your web server's configuration file for the Texis executable. For example, on an Apache web server you must add ``` ScriptAlias /texis/ "*simulia_dir*/Documentation/scripts/ texis.exe/" ```
4. Restart your web server to reread the web server's configuration file.
5. Access the Abaqus HTML documentation with the following URL: ``` http://*computername*:*port_number*/v6.14 ``` where *computername* is the fully qualified domain name of your web server and *port_number* is the port number that your web server is running on (`:*port_number*` needs to be specified only if your web server is not running on the default port of 80).
6. To access the Abaqus HTML documentation from the **Start** menu, see the instructions in ["Setting the documentation URL in the `documentation.htm` file," Section C.1.2](ap03s01.md#sgb-chp-web-server-start).

### C.1.2 Setting the documentation URL in the `documentation.htm` file

After you configure an existing non-Abaqus web server on Windows platforms, you can modify the following file to access the Abaqus HTML documentation from the **Start** menu:

```
`*simulia_dir*/Documentation/installation_info/v6.14/`documentation.htm``
```
where *simulia_dir* refers to the HTML documentation installation parent directory. The line in the `documentation.htm` file should have the following form:
```
<META HTTP-EQUIV="Refresh" CONTENT="0; 
   URL=http://*computername*:*port_number*/v6.14">
```
where *computername* is the fully qualified domain name of your web server and *port_number* is the port number that your web server is running on (`:*port_number*` needs to be specified only if your web server is not running on the default port of 80). For example, a valid parameter definition is
```
<META HTTP-EQUIV="Refresh" CONTENT="0; 
   URL=http://velouria.xyz.com:2080/v6.14">
```




