# D.1 Accessing the installation files from a remotely mounted DVD







This section describes the procedure to access the installation files from a remote DVD device. The DVD device must be properly mounted. If the device does not mount automatically, check the DVD mount command for the platform on which the device exists.

Once you have completed the following steps, you can use the installation procedures to install Abaqus:

**Linux platforms**

1. Locate the Abaqus products DVD.
2. Copy the following items from the top level of the DVD to a location that is accessible by the target computer: - The directory (and its entire contents) corresponding to the platform on which you are installing - The `common` directory (and its entire contents) - The `DSLS` directory - The `setup` executable file The UNIX utilities `cp` and `rcp` are convenient for copying these items. When copying files between different platforms (particularly between UNIX and Windows), special care may be needed to preserve the original file permissions and the file name case. In general, read and execute permissions on all files are sufficient for proper execution.
3. Create an Abaqus parent directory (`SIMULIA/Abaqus`) on the machine where you want to install Abaqus; see ["Installation procedures," Section 2.1](ch02s01.md), for details.
4. From the Abaqus parent directory, execute `*prod_dir*/setup` to launch the installation procedure, where *prod_dir* is the location of the copied installation files.

**Windows platforms**

You can install Abaqus from a remote DVD device if it has been defined as a share. Setting up the DVD device as a share must be performed by a user with Administrator privileges. To install Abaqus from a shared remote DVD, connect to that drive and perform the installation as if the drive were local (see ["Installation procedures," Section 2.1](ch02s01.md)). Universal Naming Convention (UNC) paths cannot be used to run the installer executable (`setup.exe`) but can be entered as the target installation directory during the installation. See ["Information to enter during product installation," Section 2.4.2](ch02s04.md#sgb-chp-install-prod-prompts).




