# D.4 Using a network ODB connector







Users can create a network ODB connector to access an output database on a remote computer (see ["Accessing an output database on a remote computer," Section 9.3 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-dbs-networkodb)). Abaqus/CAE or Abaqus/Viewer can start the server on the remote system and assign port numbers if the following are true:
- The user name on the remote host is the same as the user name on the local system.
- The remote shell command (`rsh`) or the secure shell command (`ssh`) is configured so that it does not prompt the user for a password.

Abaqus checks the security of the connection by passing a key back and forth between the server and the client. For information about how the key is generated, see the Dassault Systmes Knowledge Base at [www.3ds.com/support/knowledge-base](http://www.3ds.com/support/knowledge-base). If a file called `.abaqus_net_passwd` is present in the user's home directory on the remote system, Abaqus uses the password in the file for authentication instead of the key generated by Abaqus. Abaqus checks that the user is the only account with permission to read and write to the password file. In addition, the user must update the file after 30 days, and the password must be at least eight characters long. These files are described in ["Network output database file connector," Section 3.2.24 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-dremoteodbproc).

If users experience problems establishing communication or if the user names are different, they can start the network ODB server manually from the command line using the **abaqus networkDBConnector** execution procedure on the remote computer. Abaqus uses the password in `.abaqus_net_passwd` to authenticate the connection between the client and the server if the user starts the network ODB server manually. If `.abaqus_net_passwd` does not exist in the user's directory on the remote system, the user cannot start the network ODB server from the command line.

You can disable network odb connectors by removing `dmbwtr` and `dmbwtrd` from the `*abaqus_dir*/*release*/code/bin/SMAExternal/dmbwtr/` directory, where *abaqus_dir* is the Abaqus parent directory, and *release* is the release of Abaqus you are using.



