# F.3 Special situations







This section addresses questions concerning special operations that usually occur infrequently.

### F.3.1 How do we add redundant servers if our network has a single FLEXnet license server?

You need to decide which other computers you wish to use as redundant license servers. The total number of redundant license servers is three, and reliable communication must be maintained at all times between the master server and at least one other backup server (shadow) for licensing to operate. The three server hosts must be on the same subnet.

1. Send the lmhostid for all three license server hosts to your local office or representative, and request a license file for redundant servers.
2. Install the redundant license file and start the Abaqus license server manually as described in ["Redundant FLEXnet license server configurations," Section 3.4](ch03s04.md).
3. For each installation of Abaqus, edit the Abaqus environment file (`abaqus_v6.env`) so that the line ``` abaquslm_license_file="[*port*]@*license_server_host*" ``` becomes ``` abaquslm_license_file="[*port*]@*serverhost1*:[*port*]@*serverhost2*: [*port*]@*serverhost3*" ``` where *serverhost1*, *serverhost2*, and *serverhost3* are the names of the computers where the license servers are running (quotes are required). If a license server is using a port that is not between 27000 and 27009, you must include the port number with the server host name. Items in the list are colon-separated on Linux platforms and semicolon-separated on Windows platforms. Each entry must begin with an "@" symbol or a port number and an "@" symbol. Make sure that users make similar changes to any environment files in their home and local directories.

### F.3.2 How can I tell if I am using a redundant FLEXnet server configuration?

View your Abaqus license file (`simulialm.lic`) located in the directory `*simulia_dir*/License`. If you are using a redundant server configuration, there will be three `SERVER` lines in the license file. The server names should be different for each line, although the port number may be the same for all three. For example:

```
SERVER bifrost.simulia.com 69084992 27003
SERVER tank.simulia.com 69094954 27003
SERVER willow.simulia.com 69094344 27003
VENDOR ABAQUSLM
```

### F.3.3 What if I run the analysis job in a batch queue?

 FLEXnet licenses are not checked out until the analysis actually begins, so tokens will not be held by a job in a batch queue. However, if a job executes in a batch queue and sufficient tokens are not available, the job will be placed in the license queue until the tokens are free, which will prevent the rest of the jobs in the queue from executing. To prevent wasted time in the batch queue, it is recommended that tokens be registered as a resource in third-party batch queueing systems. See the LSF example for token resource in ["Deriving and using custom queue classes," Section 4.3.6](ch04s03.md#sgb-env-exa-customclass).

### F.3.4 What is the difference between the license queue and a batch queue?

The batch queue controls how and when jobs are run on a certain computer (see ["Defining analysis batch queues," Section 4.2](ch04s02.md)). The license queue is created by the license server when Abaqus jobs have requested more tokens than are currently available. A job will not request tokens until it reaches the front of the batch queue and begins execution.

### F.3.5 If we have multiple, nonredundant network license servers, how do I connect to a specific server?

The situation with multiple, nonredundant license servers is significantly different from the one with redundant servers. With redundant servers one acts as the master and the others are backups (shadows) in case the master goes down. With multiple, nonredundant servers each one is independent of the others. To connect to a specific server, you must set the **abaquslm_license_file** parameter in a local Abaqus environment file (`abaqus_v6.env`) either in your home directory or in the current working directory. The proper format for the parameter definition is as follows:

```
abaquslm_license_file="[*port*]@*license_server_host*"
```
where *license_server_host* is the name of the computer on which the license server is running (the quotation marks should be included). If a license server is using a port that is not between 27000 and 27009, you must include the port number with the server host name. Multiple servers may be listed in the **abaquslm_license_file** parameter as follows:
```
abaquslm_license_file="[*port*]@*server1*:[*port*]@*server2*:
  [*port*]@*server3*:[*port*]@*server_n*"
```
Abaqus jobs will try to connect to the servers in the order that they are listed.

### F.3.6 Are there any special requirements for using FLEXnet Licensing within a DHCP-configured network?

The hostname on the server line of the license file must be the computer name, not the IP address. The client must refer to the license server by hostname in the **abaquslm_license_file** parameter in an Abaqus environment file (`abaqus_v6.env`).




