# F.2 FLEXnet license server operation







This section addresses questions that relate to the operation of the FLEXnet license server. The answers to these questions usually involve running one of the FLEXnet administration tools. 

### F.2.1 How do I update the license file for our FLEXnet license server?

To update a FLEXnet license file, you should terminate your license server, replace the old license file with the new license file, and restart the license server. If necessary, you can also update the license file without stopping the license server so that there will be no interruption to Abaqus users. Both techniques are described in detail in ["Updating an Abaqus FLEXnet license file," Section 3.2](ch03s02.md). 

### F.2.2 How can I tell if the FLEXnet license server is running?

The easiest way to see if a license server is running is to execute the command 

```
abaqus licensing lmstat
```
This command will list the license servers that are running for a general broadcast. To see if a license server is running on a specific computer, you can enter the command
```
abaqus licensing lmstat -c [*port*]@*license_server_host*
```
where *license_server_host* is the hostname of the license server that you want to query. If the license server is using a port that is not between 27000 and 27009, you must specify the port number as well.

### F.2.3 How can I restart the FLEXnet license server if it is not running?

You must login on the license server host to restart the server (on Windows platforms you must login as Administrator) and then run the `lmgrd` program (see ["FLEXnet license server manager lmgrd," Section 3.5](ch03s05.md)). For an alternate method, see ["Starting the FLEXnet server using **LMTOOLS**," Section 3.6.9](ch03s06.md#sgb-chp-net-lic-start).

### F.2.4 How can I terminate an Abaqus FLEXnet license server?

You use the FLEXnet Licensing administration tool `lmdown` to terminate an Abaqus license server. If you use `lmdown` to terminate a license server that is part of a redundant license server configuration, all three license servers in the redundant configuration will be terminated. If you do not want to terminate all three servers, you must use an operating system utility, such as the `ps` and `kill` commands (Linux platforms) or the Windows **Task Manager**, to terminate the license server. Do not use the `-9` option when using the `kill` command. For more information, see ["lmdown," Section 3.6.2](ch03s06.md#sgb-chp-net-lic-lmdown).

### F.2.5 What if the job or session loses contact with the FLEXnet license server before it completes?

The client enters a state of “suspended animation.” The client will attempt to reestablish contact with the license server until a user-defined expiration time is exceeded (the default is to continue checking perpetually until contact is reestablished). The minimum expiration time is 60 minutes. If the predefined expiration time has not been set, the client may be terminated by using the standard `kill` command (Linux platforms) for the process. On Windows platforms the client can be terminated by entering `<Ctrl>-C` in the DOS window where the client was started if the job was run in interactive mode; otherwise, use the **Task Manager**. 

### F.2.6 What happens to FLEXnet licenses if the client ends abnormally?

Tokens are normally returned immediately. If the tokens are not returned immediately, ensure that the job is not running and stop the executable for the analysis by using `abaqus terminate` or the appropriate operating system utility, such as the `ps` and `kill` commands (Linux platforms) or the Windows **Task Manager**. 

Do not use the `lmremove` tool to free license tokens used for analysis jobs, as it will not have the intended effect. You can use `lmremove` to free Abaqus/CAE or Abaqus/Viewer license tokens; you must first obtain token information using the `lmstat` tool (for an example, see ["lmstat," Section 3.6.7](ch03s06.md#sgb-chp-net-lic-lmstat)).

### F.2.7 Can I see where my job is in the FLEXnet license queue?

No, only log file information is available. When an analysis job is in the license queue, information about the queue status is written to the log or status file for the job every 30 seconds. Abaqus/CAE and Abaqus/Viewer interactive sessions are not queued. 

### F.2.8 Can I see which users are using the Abaqus FLEXnet licenses?

The command `*simulia_dir*/License/lmstat -a`, where *simulia_dir* is the SIMULIA parent directory, will list users and the license features that they are using. For more information, see ["lmstat," Section 3.6.7](ch03s06.md#sgb-chp-net-lic-lmstat).

### F.2.9 Do I have to update the FLEXnet license server when I install a new release of Abaqus?

Yes, if the new release of Abaqus uses a later version of FLEXnet Licensing than your existing license server. Abaqus 6.14 uses FLEXnet Licensing Version 11.6.1. If you have a version of FLEXnet Licensing earlier than Version 11.6.1 installed on your system, you should use the licensing installer to automatically upgrade the license server. If you have an existing license server that uses a version of FLEXnet Licensing higher than Version 11.6.1, you should use the procedure described in ["Updating an Abaqus FLEXnet license file," Section 3.2](ch03s02.md), to update your license file without overwriting the existing license server. For more information, see ["FLEXnet Licensing installation," Section 2.1.3](ch02s01.md#sgb-chp-install-glance-lic). If your Abaqus license file is integrated with FLEXnet license files for other products using a combined license file, you must ensure that the `lmgrd` version meets the FLEXnet version compatibility rules (listed in Appendix I of the FLEXnet Licensing End User Guide Version 11.6).

Starting with Abaqus 6.13, license keys will continue to work for two years of subsequent releases, so it may not be necessary to install new FLEXnet license keys with every new release.

You can check under **Licensing** on the **Support** page at [www.3ds.com/simulia](http://www.3ds.com/simulia) for the FLEXnet Licensing End User Guide.




