# 2 Installing Abaqus







This chapter describes the installation procedures for Abaqus documentation, licensing, and products, as well as the procedures to uninstall these components. A complete Abaqus installation requires two DVDs: one for documentation and one for licensing and products.

Before starting the Abaqus installer, you should confirm that your computer is compatible with this release. You can do this by using the system information utility available on the licensing and products DVD. The system information utility checks your computer and reports the software components it finds. Use the following commands to run the system utility:

**Linux platforms**

```
/*dvd_dir*/setup -sysinfo
```

where *dvd_dir* is the directory used when the DVD was mounted or where the installation files reside.

**Windows platforms**

Do one of the following:
- From the startup screen, select **Launch the Abaqus System Information Utility**.
- From the command line, type

```
*dvd_drive*:\setup.exe -sysinfo
```

where *dvd_drive* is the DVD-ROM drive.

Compare your system's configuration to the Abaqus system requirements described in the Program Directory. The Program Directory is additional documentation, similar to release notes, available at [http://media.3ds.com/support/progdir](http://media.3ds.com/support/progdir). Choose SIMULIA Abaqus as the product **Line** and Abaqus 6.14 as the **Level**, then choose **Prerequisites** in the left-hand pane. A support contract and private login account are required for access (see [https://iam.3ds.com/self_service/login/service/websupport](https://iam.3ds.com/self_service/login/service/websupport/)/).

The disk space used for installation will be charged against the account of the owner of the Abaqus installation directory. Administrator privileges are required on Windows platforms for all installation activities.

A complete Abaqus installation consists of three procedures. You should perform the installation procedures in the following order:

1. [Abaqus documentation](ch02s02.md).
2. [Abaqus licensing](ch02s03.md). You can use either FLEXnet licensing or Dassault Systmes licensing, depending on which type of license file you have.
3. [Abaqus products](ch02s04.md).

Abaqus documentation should be installed on at least one computer on your network. Abaqus documentation should be installed before licensing and products because the product installation procedure uses the documentation URL to configure network access to the online documentation.

During the installation procedures, default values are supplied whenever possible; it is highly recommended that you use the defaults unless you have good reason to change them. The SIMULIA directory structure is designed to facilitate multiple releases of Abaqus. The Abaqus products, Abaqus licensing, and Abaqus documentation should be installed in the same SIMULIA parent directory to take full advantage of this directory structure. For an illustration of the directory structure, see [Appendix B, "Abaqus release directories and files](ap02.md).”

You can install Abaqus on a mounted network drive and configure your users' computers to run Abaqus as a client. For more information, see ["Client installation for Windows," Section D.2](ap04s02.md).



