# 2.3 Abaqus FLEXnet licensing installation details







Abaqus 6.14 uses FLEXnet Licensing Version 11.6.1. The licensing installation procedure can be used for the following scenarios:
- to install the FLEXnet Licensing administration tools and to configure and start the FLEXnet Abaqus 6.14 license server automatically; or
- to install only the FLEXnet Licensing administration tools.

An existing FLEXnet license server from a previous version of FLEXnet Licensing is upgraded automatically during the installation procedure if it was previously installed and configured using the Abaqus licensing installer. If the installer detects an existing license server on your machine from a version of FLEXnet Licensing higher than Version 11.6.1, you have the option of either overwriting the existing server or terminating the installation procedure. To update your FLEXnet license file without overwriting the existing license server, see the procedure in ["Updating an Abaqus FLEXnet license file," Section 3.2](ch03s02.md).

The commands and options used to install the Abaqus FLEXnet license server or to stop and remove an existing license server are listed in ["FLEXnet Licensing installation," Section 2.1.3](ch02s01.md#sgb-chp-install-glance-lic).

For redundant license server configurations, you can install the license administration tools and configure the license server, but you will need to start the license servers manually (see ["Redundant FLEXnet license server configurations," Section 3.4](ch03s04.md)). If you choose to install only the license administration tools, you must start the license server manually using the FLEXnet license server manager `lmgrd` (see ["FLEXnet license server manager lmgrd," Section 3.5](ch03s05.md)). 

If you are installing an Abaqus 6.14 FLEXnet license server, you must have an Abaqus 6.14 license file saved on the computer on which you are installing the license server. The FLEXnet license file is the file containing the Abaqus 6.14 license that was attached to the e-mail message sent by SIMULIA (identified by “Subject: LK: *site ID* Abaqus 6.14 License File,” where *site ID* is the customer number that was assigned to your site) or by your local office or representative.

Abaqus FLEXnet licensing needs to be installed on only one computer on your network unless you are using a redundant license server configuration. The disk space requirement for the licensing utilities ranges from 10–25 MB depending upon the platform. The computer that you choose for licensing should be accessible by all computers where you plan to run Abaqus and should be a stable machine that is not frequently rebooted or shut down. For additional information on licensing, see [Chapter 3, "Abaqus licensing](ch03.md).” 

When the installation procedure is executed, a browse function is provided for prompts where you are requested to specify a directory or file location. You will be prompted for the following information:
- The location of the FLEXnet license file. The installation procedure will save the license file in the `*simulia_dir*/License` directory using the default name `simulialm.lic`.
- The installation directory. Specify the SIMULIA parent directory (`*simulia_dir*`), which is the location where the licensing directory will be stored. The default location for the installation directory is the current working directory on Linux platforms and `C:\SIMULIA` on Windows platforms.

**Note:**On Windows platforms the FLEXnet license server is started by the installation procedure and will start up automatically upon reboot. On Linux platforms the license server is started by the installation procedure, but you should include the command to restart the license server in the system startup file for the license server host computer to have the Abaqus license server restart automatically after a system reboot. The command to restart the license server is written to the `license_startup.csh` file in the `*simulia_dir*/License/installation_info` directory. Contact your system administrator or platform vendor for information on the system startup file for your computer. 

Log files are written to the `*simulia_dir*/License/installation_info` directory when the installation is complete. The log files are helpful for troubleshooting problems, and they should not be removed.

After the Abaqus documentation is installed and the license server is installed and running, you should proceed to the Abaqus product installation on each computer that you will use to run the products. You need not install the Abaqus products on the license server host unless you will run Abaqus on that computer. 



