# 3.5 FLEXnet license server manager lmgrd







The FLEXnet license server manager `lmgrd` handles the initial contact with the client application programs, passing the connection on to the appropriate vendor daemon. It also starts and restarts the vendor daemons.

The `lmgrd` program is the main daemon program for FLEXnet Licensing. When you invoke `lmgrd`, the program looks for a license file that contains information about vendors and features. On Linux platforms it is recommended that you run `lmgrd` as a non-privileged user (not root).

See The FLEXnet Licensing End User Guide Version 11.6 for more information on FLEXnet Licensing. This guide is available for download from the **Licensing** section of the **Support** page at [www.3ds.com/simulia](http://www.3ds.com/simulia). 

**Syntax and Options**

```
`lmgrd` [`-c *license_file_list*`] [`-l [+]*debug_log_path*`] [`-2 -p`] [`-local`] [`-x lmdown`] [`-x lmremove`] [`-z`] [`-v`] [`-help`]
```

**`-c *license_file_list*`**

Specifies the license files to use.

**`-l [+]*debug_log_path*`**

Writes debugging information to the file *debug_log_path*. This option uses the letter `l`, not the numeral 1. Prepending *debug_log_path* with the + character appends logging entries.

**`-2 -p`**

Restricts usage of `lmdown` (see ["lmdown," Section 3.6.2](ch03s06.md#sgb-chp-net-lic-lmdown)), `lmreread` (see ["lmreread," Section 3.6.6](ch03s06.md#sgb-chp-net-lic-lmreread)), and `lmremove` (see ["lmremove," Section 3.6.5](ch03s06.md#sgb-chp-net-lic-lmremove)) to a FLEXnet Licensing administrator who is by default root. If there is a Linux group called “lmadmin,” use is restricted to members of that group. If root is not a member of this group, root does not have permission to use any of the three tools listed above. If you use `-2 -p` when starting `lmgrd`, no user on Windows platforms can shut down the license server with `lmdown`.

**`-local`**

Restricts `lmdown` and `lmreread` to be run only from the same machine where `lmgrd` is running.

**`-x lmdown`**

Disables the `lmdown` command (no user can run `lmdown`). If `lmdown` is disabled, you need to stop `lmgrd` via `kill` *pid* (Linux platforms) or stop the `lmgrd` and vendor daemon processes through the Windows **Task Manager** or Windows service. On Linux platforms, verify that the `kill` command does not contain the `-9` option.

**`-x lmremove`**

Disables the `lmremove` command (no user can run `lmremove`).

**`-z`**

Runs in foreground. The default behavior is to run in the background. If `-l *debug_log_path*` is present, no windows are used. If no `-l` options are specified, separate windows are used for `lmgrd` and each vendor daemon.

**`-v`**

Prints `lmgrd` version number and copyright and exits (does not launch `lmgrd`).

**`-help`**

Displays usage information and exits. 




