# 3.7 Using the FLEXnet options file







The options file allows the license administrator to control various operating parameters of FLEXnet Licensing. Parameters, such as `EXCLUDE`, `INCLUDE`, `MAX`, and `RESERVE`, can be used to control Abaqus license usage. Usage can be controlled by user name, host name, display, IP address, or project. When specifying the features to control, you may specify features listed on a `FEATURE` line in the license file. Using a `PACKAGE` name in place of a `FEATURE` name applies the option to all of the components in the package. You should not specify individual `COMPONENTS` listed on the `PACKAGE` line, as it may lead to unexpected behavior. See Chapter 5 of the FLEXnet Licensing End User Guide Version 11.6 for detailed information on creating an options file. (This guide is available from the **Licensing** section of the **Support** page at [www.3ds.com/simulia](http://www.3ds.com/simulia).)

The following is a sample options file:

```
INCLUDEALL INTERNET 192.168.0.*
RESERVE 5 abaqus USER robert
RESERVE 10 abaqus HOST demeter
MAX 5 abaqus USER jim
EXCLUDE abaqus USER khan
EXCLUDE viewer HOST guardian
```
In this options file:- Connections are accepted only from machines with the IP addresses 192.168.0.*.
- Five tokens of feature `abaqus` are reserved for user *robert*.
- Ten tokens of feature `abaqus` are reserved for users on host *demeter*.
- The user *jim* is limited to five tokens of feature `abaqus` at a time.
- The user *khan* is excluded from accessing feature `abaqus`.
- The users on host *guardian* are excluded from accessing feature `viewer` (Abaqus/Viewer).




