# 3.10 Using the reporttool utility







### 3.10 Using the `reporttool` utility

You can use the **reporttool** utility to generate reports of Abaqus license usage history. The report tool reads data from the Dassault Systmes license server log file or the FLEXnet debug log file and customizes the report according to your choices.

If you have installed Abaqus products on the network where the license server resides, you can run the **reporttool** utility using the `abaqus` command, as follows:

```
abaqus licensing reporttool -log *logfile* 
-logtype {dsls | flexnet} 
[-start *start_date*] [-end *end_date*] 
[-type {export | query}] -accessor *accessors* [-list_accessors] 
[-filter *filter*] [-list_filters] [-sort *sorter*] [-list_sorters] 
[-aggregator *aggregators*] [-list_aggregators] [-duration *bucket_size*] 
[-output *report_file*] [-format *output_format*] [-list_formats] 
[-custom *customization_script*] [-help]
```
For more information about the Abaqus licensing execution procedures, see ["Licensing utilities," Section 3.2.12 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-dlicproc).

In the context of this report tool, a license session is defined as a licensed job executing on an Abaqus product feature, which has a checkout time and a checkin time.

### 3.10.1 General options

The following command line options are available for the `reporttool` utility.

**`-log`**

Specify the path and file name of the log files to be read. The default location of a DSLS log file is` C:\ProgramData\DassaultSystemes\LicenseServer\LogFiles\` on Windows or `/var/DassaultSystemes/LicenseServer/LogFiles/` on Linux. For FLEXnet, you must specify the debug log file. If the log file is located on a remote server, you must copy it to a directory that is accessible by your local computer. This option is required.

Multiple log files can be specified in two ways:
- Use the `-log` option multiple times: `-log first.log -log second.log`
- Give a comma-separated list of the file names: `-log first.log,second.log`

**`-logtype`**

Specify the type of license server being used with Abaqus: `dsls` or `flexnet`. This option is required and is case-sensitive (must be lowercase).

**`-start`**

Specify the starting date and time for the reporting period. If the `-start` option is omitted, the reporting period begins with the oldest recorded item in the log files. The date and time must be specified in one of the following formats:
- `*dd*-*mmm*-*yyyy*_*hh*:*mm*:*ss*` For example, `-start 01-jan-2012_09:00:00` indicates a starting time of 9:00 AM on January 1, 2012. Specifying a time is required, including hours, minutes, and seconds. The hour field (*hh*) must be entered in 24-hour format.
- `-*x*hours` or `-*x*days` Use this format to pick a time or day in the past. For example, `-start -6hours` specifies a start time of six hours ago.

**`-end`**

Specify the ending date and time for the reporting period. If the `-end` option is not specified, the reporting period ends with the most recent recorded item in the log files.  The date and time must be specified in one of the following formats:
- `*dd*-*mmm*-*yyyy*_*hh*:*mm*:*ss*` For example, `-end 31-mar-2012_18:00:00` indicates an ending time of 6:00 PM on March 31, 2012. Specifying a time is required, including hours, minutes, and seconds. The hour field (*hh*) must be entered in 24-hour format.
- `-*x*hours` or `-*x*days` Use this format to pick a time or day in the past. For example, `-end -3hours` specifies an ending time of three hours ago.

**`-type`**

Specify the type of report desired: `export` or `query`. If this option is omitted, the default is `export`. An export report provides the basic licensing session information, usually in tabular format or comma-separated values (CSV). The data can be optionally filtered or sorted. A query report lets you look at sessions in aggregate; you can operate on the raw data to calculate such things as maximum usage, peak usage, and averages. A query report divides the total time period into equal sized buckets. You choose the size of each time bucket with the `-duration` option. You can also use an export report to save the raw data to a CSV file, import it into an Excel spreadsheet, and perform custom calculations using your own tools.

**`-accessor`**

Comma-separated list of accessors to be read from the log data. Accessors are the fields or columns of the output report. For example: `-accessor username,checkout,duration`. This option is required.

**`-list_accessors`**

Use this option to obtain a list of the available report accessors. The basic accessors are as follows:
- `duration`---duration of the license session, in seconds
- `username`---username
- `checkout`---checkout date
- `feature`---Dassault Systmes license feature (trigram); for example, QSD
- `quantity`---number of licenses requested
- `project`---custom project names or numbers recorded from the `lmproject` environment file parameter (see ["License management parameters," Section 4.1.6](ch04s01.md#sgb-chp-env-net))
- `session`---the internal session object that represents the licensing job; this is useful only when using the `peak` aggregator or designing your own custom aggregators

**`-filter`**

Filter the report data. The required format for this option is `-filter *accessor*:*value*`. The report output is filtered to include only data records for which *accessor*=*value*. You can include multiple `*accessor*:*value*` pairs in a comma-separated list; for example,

```
-filter username:tsmith,hostname:zulu
```
This example would produce a report showing license checkouts only from the user `tsmith` on the computer `zulu`. To create other filters, use the` -custom` option with a Python program.

**`-list_filters`**

Use this option to obtain a list of the available filters. The one built-in filter takes the form `-filter *accessor*:*value*`. If you create any custom filters using the `-custom` option, they will appear in this list.

### 3.10.2 Export options

The following command line options are available for sorting the output of the `reporttool` utility.

**`-sort`**

Sort the report data chronologically, from oldest to newest. The required format for this option is `-sort date`.

**`-list_sorters`**

Use this option to obtain a list of the available sorters. The one built-in sorter is `date`. If you create any custom sorters using the `-custom` option, they will appear in this list.

### 3.10.3 Query options

The following command line options are available for query reports from the `reporttool` utility.

**`-aggregator`**

Comma-separated list of aggregator functions to be applied to the accessor values in each time bucket. For example: `-aggregator max,average`. This option is required if `-type query` is used.

**`-list_aggregators`**

Use this option to obtain a list of the available aggregator functions. The basic aggregators are as follows:
- `max`---maximum value of an accessor in each time bucket
- `min`---minimum value of an accessor in each time bucket
- `sum`---sum of all accessor values in each time bucket
- `average`---average value of accessor in each time bucket
- `len`---number of items in each time bucket
- `peak`---maximum number of licenses in use; must operate on the `session` accessor

Not all aggregators will work with all assessors. For example, you can successfully calculate the maximum duration of sessions, but attempting to find the average value of usernames is meaningless.

**`-duration`**

The size of each time bucket for query reports, in minutes, hours, days, weeks, or months. If this option is omitted, the default is 24 hours. Examples: `-duration 1hour`, `-duration 2days`

### 3.10.4 Output options

The following command line options are available for formatting the output of the `reporttool` utility.

**`-output`**

Specify the path and file name of the file to which the report will be written. If this option is omitted or `-output - ` is used, the default is to write to standard output (showing the report in your command prompt or shell window).

**`-format`**

Specify the output format to use.

**`-list_formats`**

Use this option to obtain a list of the available output formats. The basic formats are as follows:
- `table`---a plain table with columns for each accessor and/or aggregator selected
- `csv`---comma-separated values
- `json`---JavaScript Object Notation (see [http://json.org](http://json.org))

### 3.10.5 Advanced options

**`-custom`**

Specify a Python program file containing your custom definitions.

### 3.10.6 Examples

Several examples are shown below to demonstrate different ways to use the `reporttool` utility. 

The following example generates a simple export type of report showing checkout date, username, product feature, and quantity.

```
abaqus licensing reporttool -log today.log -logtype dsls -type export 
  -accessor checkout,username,feature,quantity

       Checkout Date | Username | Feature | Quantity |
-------------------- | -------- | ------- | -------- |
2012-Dec-10 03:05:16 | bbaggins |     QEX |       50 |
2012-Dec-10 03:33:50 | gandalf  |     QAE |        1 |
2012-Dec-10 04:08:34 | fbaggins |     QAE |        1 |
2012-Dec-10 06:27:18 | gollum   |     QEX |       50 | 
```

The following example generates a query report that calculates the average number of license tokens used in each 1-hour time bucket.

```
abaqus licensing reporttool -log today.log -logtype dsls -type query 
  -accessor quantity -aggregator average -duration 1hour

              Bucket | Average
-------------------- | -------
2012-Sep-19 12:37:53 |      25
2012-Sep-19 13:37:53 |      19
2012-Sep-19 14:37:53 |       8
2012-Sep-19 15:37:53 |      18
2012-Sep-19 16:37:53 |      13
2012-Sep-19 17:37:53 |      34
```

The example below adds to the query report to calculate the total number of checkouts, the average checkout quantity, and the maximum checkout quantity for all sessions in `today.log`, grouped into 1-hour buckets.

```
abaqus licensing reporttool -log today.log -logtype dsls -type query 
  -accessor quantity,quantity,quantity -aggregator count,average,max -duration 1hour

              Bucket | Number of items | Average | Maximum
-------------------- | --------------- | ------- | -------
2012-Sep-19 12:37:53 |             108 |      25 |      80
2012-Sep-19 13:37:53 |              98 |      19 |      80
2012-Sep-19 14:37:53 |              46 |       8 |      66
2012-Sep-19 15:37:53 |             114 |      18 |      50
2012-Sep-19 16:37:53 |             129 |      13 |      50
2012-Sep-19 17:37:53 |              74 |      34 |      66
2012-Sep-20 07:37:53 |              49 |      49 |      66
2012-Sep-20 08:37:53 |              11 |      52 |      66
2012-Sep-20 09:37:53 |               2 |      50 |      50
```

The example below adds one more column to the query report to show the maximum duration of the sessions in each bucket.

```
abaqus licensing reporttool -log today.log -logtype dsls -type query 
  -accessor quantity,quantity,quantity,duration -aggregator count,average,max,max 
  -duration 1hour

              Bucket | Number of items | Average | Maximum | Maximum
-------------------- | --------------- | ------- | ------- | -------
2012-Sep-19 12:37:53 |             108 |      25 |      80 |    1497
2012-Sep-19 13:37:53 |              98 |      19 |      80 |    1220
2012-Sep-19 14:37:53 |              46 |       8 |      66 |      77
2012-Sep-19 15:37:53 |             114 |      18 |      50 |     482
2012-Sep-19 16:37:53 |             129 |      13 |      50 |     449
2012-Sep-19 17:37:53 |              74 |      34 |      66 |    3552
2012-Sep-20 07:37:53 |              49 |      49 |      66 |    3272
```




