# 3.2 Updating an Abaqus FLEXnet license file







You may need to update an Abaqus 6.14 FLEXnet license file; for example, when you obtain a new license file to replace an expired license file or to revise license features. You may also need to replace a license file from a previous release of Abaqus. For example, if you manually upgraded an existing license server to a version of FLEXnet Licensing higher than Version 11.6.1, you need to update the license file for Abaqus 6.14 without reinstalling and overwriting the existing licensing utilities.

You must have write permissions to update the license file. If your license file is independent of other products using FLEXnet Licensing, you can replace the current license file with the new one using two methods: restarting the license server or forcing the server to reread the license file.

**To update an Abaqus FLEXnet license file and restart the license server:**

1. Backup the current license file by saving it with a new name.
2. Copy the new license file to the same location as the original license file using the name of the original license file.
3. Run the FLEXnet Licensing tool `lmdown` (see ["lmdown," Section 3.6.2](ch03s06.md#sgb-chp-net-lic-lmdown)) to shut down the currently running Abaqus license server.
4. Restart the Abaqus license server. For Windows platforms use the method described in ["Starting the FLEXnet server using **LMTOOLS**," Section 3.6.9](ch03s06.md#sgb-chp-net-lic-start). For Linux platforms use the method described in ["Abaqus FLEXnet licensing installation details," Section 2.3](ch02s03.md).

**To update and reread an Abaqus FLEXnet license file:**

1. Backup the current license file by saving it with a new name.
2. Copy the new license file to the same location as the original license file using the name of the original license file.
3. Run the FLEXnet Licensing tool `lmreread` (see ["lmreread," Section 3.6.6](ch03s06.md#sgb-chp-net-lic-lmreread)) to force the license server to reread the new license file.

The license file that you update must maintain its file name and path name (location). If either the file name or path name change, you should uninstall licensing and then run the licensing installation procedure (see [Chapter 2, "Installing Abaqus](ch02.md)”). The default name of the Abaqus license file is `simulialm.lic`. You can determine the name of the Abaqus license file by running the command
```
*simulia_dir*/License/lmstat -c [*port*]@*license_server_host*
```
where *simulia_dir* refers to the SIMULIA parent directory and *license_server_host* is the hostname of the license server. If the license server is using a port that is not between 27000 and 27009, you must specify the port number as well.

If your Abaqus license features are integrated with other products using a combined FLEXnet license file, replace the Abaqus licensing information in the combined license file with the updated information. You must run the FLEXnet Licensing tool `lmreread`  (see ["lmreread," Section 3.6.6](ch03s06.md#sgb-chp-net-lic-lmreread)) to force the license server to reread the new license file. For more information on combined license files, see The FLEXnet Licensing End User Guide Version 11.6, which is available for download from the **Licensing** section of the **Support** page at [www.3ds.com/simulia](http://www.3ds.com/simulia). 



