# 3.8 Reporting FLEXnet license usage data







This section describes methods for creating license usage reports. If your Abaqus FLEXnet license server is on a wide area network (WAN) and Abaqus users in different locations receive technical support and customer service from more than one regional SIMULIA office, you are required to submit license usage reports to SIMULIA. For more information about reporting requirements, see “License usage reporting for multi-territory accounts” in the Dassault Systmes Knowledge Base at [www.3ds.com/support/knowledge-base](http://www.3ds.com/support/knowledge-base).

The reporting tools are available to all Abaqus licensees. Two utilities are provided with Abaqus to generate license usage reports:
- The `usage` utility (described in ["Manually creating FLEXnet license usage reports," Section 3.8.1](ch03s08.md#sgb-chp-net-lic-report-man)) can be used to manually generate license usage reports for a specified range of dates.
- The scheduled license reporting utility (`schLicRpt`, described in ["Scheduling automated FLEXnet license usage reporting," Section 3.8.2](ch03s08.md#sgb-chp-net-lic-report-sched)) can be used to set up automated license usage reports on a monthly or quarterly basis.

The license usage reporting utilities use information from the FLEXnet debug log file. You can ensure that this log is created by including the `-l` option when starting the license server using `lmgrd` (see ["FLEXnet license server manager lmgrd," Section 3.5](ch03s05.md)). To subtotal reports according to user location, you must set the **computer_location** environment file parameter. More details about the environment file parameters can be found in ["License management parameters," Section 4.1.6](ch04s01.md#sgb-chp-env-net).

### 3.8.1 Manually creating FLEXnet license usage reports

The `usage` utility allows you to generate CSV-formatted reports detailing the usage of Abaqus licenses. Two types of usage reports are generated: summary usage reports and daily usage reports. Summary usage reports provide usage information for each Abaqus license feature subtotaled by user location or individual user. Summary usage reports list the total number of licenses requested, number of licenses granted, number of licenses denied, and total hours of license usage within a specified period. Daily usage reports list the peak and average number of analysis and Abaqus/CAE license tokens checked out on each day within a specified period. Daily usage reports provide aggregate data for all users and locations.

The license usage reports calculate token usage to two significant figures. If the total hours of license usage (in a summary report) or the average number of tokens checked out (in a daily report) is less than 0.005, the usage report lists these values as zero.

If the FLEXnet debug log file (or log files) is located on a remote server, you must copy it to a directory that is accessible to the local computer before running the `usage` utility.

**Syntax and Options**

`abaqus licensing usage` {`-summary` *report_file* | `-daily` *report_file*} [`-nouser`] `-log` {*debug_log_file* | *debug_log_directory*} [`-start` *start_date*] [`-end` *end_date*]

**`-summary`**

Use this option to create a report summarizing usage of each license feature by user or location. The report is written to the path and file name specified by *report_file*.

**`-daily`**

Use this option to create a report providing peak and average daily usage of analysis and Abaqus/CAE license tokens. The report is written to the path and file name specified by *report_file*.

**`-nouser`**

This option suppresses usage data about individual users in a summary report. It reports aggregate data for the entire license server. If the **computer_location** environment file parameter is set, it also reports aggregate data for each location. This option has no effect when used in conjunction with the `-daily` option; daily reports do not include information about individual users or locations.

**`-log`**

Use this option to specify the path to the debug log file or to a directory that includes multiple debug log files; the utility reviews all log files located in the specified path for usage data within the specified reporting period.

**`-start`**

Use this option to specify the starting date and time for the reporting period. If the `-start` option is not specified, the reporting period begins with the oldest recorded item in the debug log files. The date and time must be entered in the following format:

```
*dd*-*mmm*-*yyyy*[_*hh*[:*mm*[:*ss*]]]
```
 For example, `-start 01-jan-2008_09:00:00` indicates a starting time of 9:00 AM on January 1, 2008. Specifying a time is optional; the default start time is `00:00:00`. If the time is specified, the hour field (*hh*) must be entered in 24-hour format.

**`-end`**

Use this option to specify the ending date and time for the reporting period. If the `-end` option is not specified, the reporting period ends with the most recent recorded item in the debug log files. The date and time must be entered in the following format:

```
*dd*-*mmm*-*yyyy*[_*hh*[:*mm*[:*ss*]]]
```
 For example, `-end 31-mar-2008_18:00:00` indicates an ending time of 6:00 PM on March 31, 2008. Specifying a time is optional; the default end time is `23:59:59`. If the time is specified, the hour field (*hh*) must be entered in 24-hour format.

### 3.8.2 Scheduling automated FLEXnet license usage reporting

Abaqus provides a utility that automatically generates both summary and daily FLEXnet license usage reports according to a monthly or quarterly schedule. The utility creates a script containing commands to generate the reports, then it installs a scheduled task (on Windows platforms) or a `crontab` entry (on Linux platforms) to execute the script on a monthly or quarterly basis. The debug log file can be located on a server that is remote from the computer on which automated license usage reporting is scheduled. If desired, you can instruct the utility to automatically e-mail the reports to a specified address as soon as they are generated. 

You should create a new directory dedicated to license usage reporting and run the scheduled license usage reporting utility from within this directory. The script for report generation (`usage_report.bat` or `usage_report.sh`), a utility configuration file (`schLicRpt.cfg`), and the generated reports are all saved to the directory in which you run the utility. Generated reports use the following file naming convention:

```
abaqus_usage*n*_*siteID*_*date*.csv
```
where *siteID* is the customer number that SIMULIA assigned to your site, and the *date* is written numerically in *yymmdd* format. The type of usage report is indicated by *n*: `1` indicates a summary usage report, and `2` indicates a daily usage report. For example, `abaqus_usage2_01ABCD_080515.csv` is the file name for a daily usage report created at site 01ABCD on May 15, 2008.

To run the utility, use the following command:

```
abaqus schLicRpt
```
The utility will prompt you for the required information, including the location of the debug log file, the frequency of report generation, and, if you choose to e-mail the reports, the fully qualified domain name of your SMTP server and the e-mail address to which reports are sent. If you run the utility again from the same directory, default settings will be provided during the configuration process based on the contents of the saved configuration file. You can, therefore, make minor modifications to the reporting configuration settings without reentering all of the required information.

You must have access to the `schTasks.exe` utility (on Windows) or `crontab` utility (on Linux) to run the scheduled license reporting utility. For best performance, it is recommended that you execute the utility on the Abaqus license server host computer, which is possible only if Abaqus products have been installed on this computer. The utility should be executed only on one computer within your site. Otherwise, you will generate duplicate usage reports and may degrade the performance of the license server when the reports are generated.

Use the following procedures to remove automatically generated reports from your system:

**Linux platforms**

To list current crontab entries, run the following command:

```
crontab -l
```
To edit the current crontab entries, run the following command:
```
crontab -e
```
To remove all of the current crontab entries, run the following command:
```
crontab -r
```
For more details on crontab, type `man crontab` from any prompt to view the crontab man page for your system.

**Windows platforms**

To list current scheduled tasks, run the following command:

```
schTasks /query
```
To remove the automated Abaqus license usage report, run the following command:
```
schTasks /delete /tn abaqus_usage_report
```




