# 3.9 Using the dslsstat utility for a Dassault Systmes license server







### 3.9 Using the `dslsstat` utility for a Dassault Systmes license server

You can use the `dslsstat` utility to show basic status information about the Dassault Systmes license server (DSLS); you can verify that the license server is running, is configured properly, and is serving the correct licenses. To see more detailed information about the license server, you can use the Dassault Systmes License Administration Tool, which comes with the DSLS installation. See “Starting the License Administration Tool” in the *Dassault Systmes License Server Installation and Configuration Guide* (`DSLS.pdf`).

If you have installed Abaqus products on the network where the Dassault Systmes license server resides, you can run the `dslsstat` utility using the `abaqus` command, as follows:

```
abaqus licensing dslsstat [-server *machine*:*port*] [-usage]
```

**`-server`**

Use this option to specify the name of the server machine and the port number on which the DSLS software is running; for example,

```
abaqus licensing dslsstat -server jupiter:4085
```

If you omit the `-server` option on the command line, `dslsstat` attempts to determine which Dassault Systmes license servers to query in two ways:
- Use any Dassault Systmes license servers that Abaqus has been configured to use (usually configured during installation).
- Look in the system default location for the `DSLicSrv.txt` license client configuration file that describes which license servers to use. The locations of this file are described in "File Locations, Settings and Registry Entries" in the *Dassault Systmes License Server Installation and Configuration Guide*.

If no servers are found, an error message is issued.

**`-usage`**

Use this option to show license usage details for individual users in the output. See the example below.

The results are returned in the command/terminal window; for example,

```
Server:  jupiter:4085
  Name                : jupiter
  Port                : 4085
  Status              : Running
  Type                : Standalone
  Version             : 6.212.0
  OS Name             : Windows 2008
  OS Version          : 5.2
  OS Arch             : x86
  Computer Id         : TWK-4213101B783368E0
```
The information reported for each license server found includes:- *Status*: `Running` or `Not Running`
- *Type*: `Standalone` or `Failover`

Information is also reported for each enrolled license feature found on the license servers; for example,

```
Licenses:                                                                      Server
| Feature | Version | Model          | Number | InUse | Expires              | Name
| --------| ------- | -------------- | -------| ----- | -------------------- | -------
| QAE     | 11      | Token          |     50 |     0 | 31-Dec-2013 19:59:00 | jupiter
| QAQ     | 11      | ConcurrentUser |      1 |     0 | 31-Dec-2013 19:59:00 | jupiter
| QEX     | 11      | Token          |     50 |     0 | 31-Dec-2013 19:59:00 | jupiter
| QSD     | 11      | Named User     |     50 |     0 | 31-Dec-2013 19:59:00 | jupiter
```
The expiration date includes time in the local time zone.

If you include the `-usage` option, extra information is provided showing which users (login/username) are using particular license features; for example,

```
Licenses:                                                                      Server
| Feature | Version | Model          | Number | InUse | Expires              | Name
| --------| ------- | -------------- | -------| ----- | -------------------- | -------
| QAE     | 11      | Token          |     50 |     0 | 31-Dec-2013 19:59:00 | jupiter
| QAQ     | 11      | ConcurrentUser |      1 |     0 | 31-Dec-2013 19:59:00 | jupiter
| QEX     | 11      | Token          |     50 |     0 | 31-Dec-2013 19:59:00 | jupiter
    jsmith on bigbird, granted on 18-Oct-2012 10:06:13
    tjones on kermit, granted on 18-Oct-2012 14:02:47

```
Each line of user information has the following format:
```
*username* on *hostname*, granted on *date*
```

For more information about the Abaqus licensing execution procedures, see ["Licensing utilities," Section 3.2.12 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-dlicproc).



