# 4.1 Using the Abaqus environment file







The Abaqus execution procedure (see [Chapter 3, "Job Execution," of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usbdchapter)) reads environment files to determine the various parameters that are used to run a job. The procedure searches three directories for the environment file, `abaqus_v6.env`, in the following order: 

1. The `/SMA/site/` subdirectory of the Abaqus installation (see [Appendix B, "Abaqus release directories and files](ap02.md)"). An environment file must exist in this directory. The settings in this file are ignored when a job is submitted to a remote queue. Instead, the settings in the `/SMA/site/` subdirectory on the remote computer are used.
2. The user's home directory. This environment file is optional and will affect all jobs submitted from the user's account. On Windows platforms, for Abaqus to locate the environment file in the user's home directory, the full path to the user's home directory must be specified using the `HOME` environment variable or a combination of the `HOMEDRIVE` and `HOMEPATH` environment variables.
3. The current working directory. This environment file is optional and will affect all jobs submitted from the current working directory.

If the same parameter is defined in more than one environment file or is defined more than once within an environment file, the last definition encountered will be used.

The environment file for Abaqus 6.14 uses Python syntax. See the [Abaqus Scripting User's Guide](../cmd/cmd-link.md#cmd) for more detailed information on Python syntax. The environment file for Abaqus 6.14 must be named `abaqus_v6.env`. Attempting to use a Version 5 format environment file will cause errors.

Environment file entries have the following syntax:

```
parameter=value
```
All parameters must have a value. The following syntactic rules also apply:- All parameters are case sensitive.
- A string value must be enclosed in a pair of double or single quotes.
- Comments are preceded by a number sign (#). All characters following a number sign on a line are ignored. Number signs within a quoted string are part of the string, not the beginning of a comment.
- Blank lines are ignored.
- Lists must be enclosed in square brackets ([ ]). Individual items in the list are separated by commas. Entries take the form: ``` parameter=[value1, value2, value3] ```
- Tuples must be enclosed in parentheses (( )). Individual items in the tuple are separated by commas. If the tuple is enclosed in parentheses and contains only one value, a comma has to follow the value. Entries take the form: ``` parameter=(value1, value2) ```
- Embedded single quotes do not require special handling if they are placed within a double-quoted string. For example, `"my value's"` is translated as `my value's`. The same holds true for double quotes embedded in a single-quoted string. Quotes of the same type as the enclosing quotes can be embedded if they are prefixed by the backslash (\) character. Strings in a list or a tuple must be enclosed in quotes.
- Triple-quoted (""") strings can span more than one line, and no special treatment of quotes within the string is necessary. Entries take the form: ``` parameter=""" multi-line value """ ```

Examples of many of the environment file parameters are available in the `abaqus_v6.env` and `abaqusinc.env` environment files found in the `/SMA/site/` subdirectory of the Abaqus installation. Care should be taken when merging customized `abaqus_v6.env` settings from an earlier release into the current release. Settings from the earlier release may not be compatible with the new release. The available parameters are described in the following sections.

### 4.1.1 Memory and disk management parameters

Management of memory and disk resources for Abaqus/Standard and Abaqus/Explicit is discussed in detail in ["Managing memory and disk use in Abaqus," Section 3.4.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-dmemory). The relevant parameters are listed here along with a single parameter, **abq_ker_memory**, that is used to manage memory in Abaqus/CAE and Abaqus/Viewer.

The available units for memory sizes are mb (megabytes) and gb (gigabytes). If the units are not specified, the size is assumed to be in megabytes.

****abq_ker_memory****

The maximum amount of memory that can be allocated by the Abaqus/CAE and Abaqus/Viewer kernel, specified in MB (megabytes). If the limit is exceeded, Abaqus/CAE displays an error message. 

If the kernel memory size reaches the **abq_ker_memory** value or the virtual memory limit of the machine, the following message will be displayed: `Operation did not complete due to a memory allocation failure.`

For optimal performance, the memory limit should be set to a value less than the physical amount of memory on the machine. The minimum setting allowed is 256 MB.

****scratch****

Full path name of the directory to be used for scratch files. The default value on Linux is the value of the `$TMPDIR` environment variable or `/tmp` if `$TMPDIR` is not defined. On Windows the default value is the value of the `%TEMP%` environment variable or `\TEMP` if `%TEMP%` is not defined. During the analysis a subdirectory will be created under this directory to hold the analysis scratch files. The name of the subdirectory is constructed from the user's user name, the job ID, and the job's process number. The subdirectory and its contents are deleted upon completion of the analysis.

****memory****

Maximum amount of memory or maximum percentage of the physical memory that can be allocated during the input file preprocessing and during the Abaqus/Standard analysis phase. The default value is different on different platforms; for details, refer to the Dassault Systmes Knowledge Base at [www.3ds.com/support/knowledge-base](http://www.3ds.com/support/knowledge-base).

### 4.1.2 Parallelization parameters

Parallelization in Abaqus is discussed in detail in the following sections:
- ["Parallel execution in Abaqus/Standard," Section 3.5.2 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-astdparallel)
- ["Parallel execution in Abaqus/Explicit," Section 3.5.3 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-aparallelexecution)
- ["Parallel execution in Abaqus/CFD," Section 3.5.4 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-acfdparallel)

The relevant parameters are listed here.

****auto_convert****

If this parameter is set equal to `ON` and an Abaqus/Explicit analysis is run in parallel with **parallel**=`domain`, the **convert**=`select`, **convert**=`state`, and **convert**=`odb` options will be run automatically at the end of the analysis if required. The default value is `ON`.

****cpus****

Number of processors to use during an analysis run if parallel processing is available. The default value for this parameter is 1.

****domains****

The number of parallel domains in Abaqus/Explicit. If the value is greater than 1, the domain decomposition will be performed regardless of the values of the **parallel** and **cpus** variables. However, if **parallel**=`DOMAIN`, the value of **cpus** must be evenly divisible into the value of **domains**. If this parameter is not set, the number of domains defaults to the number of processors used during the analysis run if **parallel**=`DOMAIN` or to 1 if **parallel**=`LOOP`.

****gpus****

Activate direct solver acceleration using GPGPU hardware in Abaqus/Standard. The value of this parameter should be the number of GPGPUs to use for an analysis. In an MPI-based parallel Abaqus/Standard analysis, this is the number of GPGPUs to use on each host.

****max_cpus****

Maximum number of processors allowed if parallel processing is available. If this parameter is not set, the number of processors allowed equals the number of available processors on the system.

****mp_file_system****

Type of file system available for an MPI-based parallel Abaqus analysis. The parameter must be set to a tuple; for example,

```
mp_file_system=(SHARED,LOCAL)
```
The first item in the tuple refers to the directory where the job was submitted, while the second refers to the job's scratch directory. If the file system hosting a directory is `LOCAL`, Abaqus will copy the required analysis files to the remote host machines and, at the end of the run, copy the output files back. In this case it must be possible to create the job's directory structure on all the hosts in **mp_host_list**. A `SHARED` file system means that the host machines share the same file system and file transfer is not necessary. With the recommended default (`DETECT`, `DETECT`) setting, Abaqus will determine the type of file system that exists. An MPI-based parallel Abaqus/Explicit analysis will use the scratch directory only if a user subroutine is used, whereas Abaqus/Standard normally writes large temporary files in this directory. Running on a local file system will generally improve the performance.

****mp_host_list****

List of host machine names to be used for an MPI-based parallel Abaqus analysis, including the number of processors to be used on each machine; for example, 

```
mp_host_list=[['maple',1],['pine',1],['oak',2]]
```
indicates that, if the number of **cpus** specified for the analysis is 4, the analysis will use one processor on a machine called `maple`, one processor on a machine called `pine`, and two processors on a machine called `oak`. The total number of processors defined in the host list has to be greater than or equal to the number of **cpus** specified for the analysis. If the host list is not defined, Abaqus will run on the local system. When using a supported queuing system, this parameter does not need to be defined. If it is defined, it will get overridden by the queuing environment.

****mp_mode****

Set this variable equal to `MPI` to indicate that the MPI components are available on the system. Set **mp_mode**=`THREADS` to use the thread-based parallelization method. The default value is `MPI` where applicable.

****mp_mpi_implementation****

This variable determines the underlying MPI implementation to use. Generally, this variable does not need to be specified.

****mp_mpirun_options****

String of options that are passed to the MPI launcher for an MPI-based parallel Abaqus analysis. Generally this variable does not need to be specified.

****mp_mpirun_path****

A dictionary to define the full path to the MPI launcher for a given MPI implementation. For example, on Windows,

```
mp_mpirun_path={NATIVE: 'C:\\Program Files\\
   Microsoft HPC Pack 2008 R2\\bin\\mpiexec.exe'}
```

****mp_num_parallel_ftps****

When performing parallel file staging using MPI-based parallelization, this parameter controls the number of simultaneous MPI file transfers. The first item controls the transfer of files to and from the temporary scratch directory. The second item controls the transfer of files to and from the analysis working directory. Setting either value to 1 disables the parallel file staging process. The use of file staging depends on the values specified in **mp_file_system**.

****mp_rsh_command****

Preferred command to open a remote shell on the machines specified by **mp_host_list**. Abaqus needs to open a remote shell to create and remove directories and files if the file system is not shared. The default value for this option is platform dependent; for example, 

```
mp_rsh_command='ssh -n -l %U %H %C'
```
The following placemarkers are used:

| **%U** | Username. |
| --- | --- |
| **%H** | The host where the remote shell is opened. |
| **%C** | The command to be executed on the host. |

Abaqus automatically uses secure copy (`scp`) to copy files to and from remote hosts if this parameter is set to use secure shell. By default, this parameter is ignored in favor of built-in MPI `rsh/scp` commands.

****order_parallel****

The default direct solver ordering mode in Abaqus/Standard if you do not specify the parallel ordering mode on the **abaqus** command line. If this parameter is set equal to `OFF`, the solver ordering will not be performed in parallel. If this parameter is set equal to `ON`, the solver ordering will be run in parallel. The default for parallel solver ordering is `ON`. 

****parallel****

The default parallel equation solution method in Abaqus/Explicit if the user does not specify the parallel method on the **abaqus** command line. Possible values are `DOMAIN` or `LOOP`; the default value is `DOMAIN`. 

****standard_parallel****

The default parallel execution mode in Abaqus/Standard if you do not specify the parallel mode on the **abaqus** command line. If this parameter is set equal to `ALL`, both the element operations and the solver will run in parallel. If this parameter is set equal to `SOLVER`, only the solver will run in parallel. The default parallel execution mode is `ALL`.

### 4.1.3 Job customization parameters

****abq_cosimulation_lower_port****

This variable specifies the lowest port number in the range of TCP/UDP port numbers available for co-simulation between two Abaqus analyses; it is valid only for Abaqus/CAE. The default value is 48000.

****abq_cosimulation_upper_port****

This variable specifies the highest port number in the range of TCP/UDP port numbers available for co-simulation between two Abaqus analyses; it is valid only for Abaqus/CAE. If this value is not specified, it is set to 1000 more than **abq_cosimulation_lower_port**.

****auto_calculate****

If this parameter is set to `ON`, the postprocessing calculator will be launched automatically at the end of an analysis if the execution procedure detects that output database postprocessing is necessary. If this parameter is set to `OFF`, the postprocessing calculator will not run at the end of an analysis even if the execution procedure detects that it is necessary to postprocess the output database file. The default value is `ON`.

****average_by_section****

 This parameter is used only for an Abaqus/Standard analysis. If this parameter is set equal to `OFF`, the averaging regions for output written to the data (`.dat`) file and results (`.fil`) file are based on the structure of the elements. If this parameter is set equal to `ON`, the averaging regions also take into account underlying values of element properties and material constants. In problems with many section and/or material definitions the default value of `OFF` will, in general, give much better performance than the nondefault value of `ON`. See ["Output to the data and results files," Section 4.1.2 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-out-oprintfile), for further details on the averaging scheme.

****cae_error_limit****

This variable defines the maximum number of error messages that will be sent from an analysis job to Abaqus/CAE; it is valid only for Abaqus/CAE. The default value is 50.

****cae_no_parts_input_file****

This variable defines the format of the input file generated by Abaqus/CAE; it is valid only for Abaqus/CAE. If this variable is set to `ON`, Abaqus/CAE will generate an input file without parts and assemblies. The default value is `OFF`. For more information, see ["Writing input files without parts and assemblies," Section 9.10.4 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-dbs-flatteninput).

****cae_warning_limit****

This variable defines the maximum number of warning messages that will be sent from an analysis job to Abaqus/CAE; it is valid only for Abaqus/CAE. The default value is 200.

****double_precision****

The default precision version of Abaqus/Explicit to run if you do not specify the precision version on the **abaqus** command line. Possible values are `EXPLICIT` (only the Abaqus/Explicit analysis is run in double precision), `BOTH` (both the Abaqus/Explicit packager and analysis are run in double precision), `CONSTRAINT` (the constraint packager and constraint solver in Abaqus/Explicit are run in double precision, while the Abaqus/Explicit packager and analysis continue to run in single precision), or `OFF` (both the Abaqus/Explicit packager and analysis are run in single precision). The default is `OFF`.

****max_history_requests****

This parameter specifies the maximum number of history requests allowed in an Abaqus analysis. The default value is 10,000. History output in Abaqus is intended for relatively frequent output requests for small portions of a model and is displayed in *X–Y* plots in the Visualization module of Abaqus/CAE (Abaqus/Viewer). Requesting large amounts of history output will cause performance problems in both analysis and postprocessing of an Abaqus job. For vector- or tensor-valued output variables, each component is considered to be a single request. In the case of element variables, history output will be generated at each integration point. For example, requesting history output of the tensor variable S (stress) for a C3D10M element will generate 24 history output requests: (6 components)  (4 integration points). When requesting history output of vector- and tensor-valued variables, it is recommended that individual components be selected where applicable. In cases where large amounts of history output are required, it is recommended that the data be written to the output database (`.odb`) as field output from which history data can be extracted using the Visualization module of Abaqus/CAE.

****odb_output_by_default****

If this parameter is set to `ON`, output database output will be generated automatically. If this parameter is set to `OFF`, output database request keywords must be placed in an input file to obtain output database output and to allow the analysis to be restarted. The default value is `ON`.

****onCaeGraphicsStartup****

Optional function to be executed before Abaqus/CAE or Abaqus/Viewer begins. This function allows the user to change the graphics options. See ["Tuning graphics cards," Section 5.3](ch05s03.md), for more information on this function. This function should not normally be changed. 

****onCaeStartup****

Optional function to be executed before Abaqus/CAE begins. See ["Customizing Abaqus/CAE startup," Section 4.3.3](ch04s03.md#sgb-env-exa-custom-startup), for examples of this function.

****onDesignStartup****

Optional function to be executed before Abaqus/Design begins.

****onJobCompletion****

Optional function to be executed after the Abaqus job completes. A function specified in the Abaqus environment file in the current directory will be executed first, followed by the function in the user's home directory, and then the function in the Abaqus installation environment file. Multiple functions in the same environment file will result in only the last definition being used. See ["Job variables," Section 4.1.10](ch04s01.md#sgb-chp-env-job), for a list of variables available to this function.

****onJobStartup****

Optional function to be executed before the Abaqus job begins. See ["Job variables," Section 4.1.10](ch04s01.md#sgb-chp-env-job), for a list of variables available to this function.

****onViewerStartup****

Optional function to be executed before Abaqus/Viewer begins.

****printed_output****

By default, the values of all [*PREPRINT](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mpreprint) parameters are NO and no results are printed to the data file. Set the **printed_output** parameter equal to `ON` to obtain the same preprint information in the data file as if

```
*PREPRINT, CONTACT=YES, ECHO=YES, HISTORY=YES, MODEL=YES
```
were included in the input file. Setting **printed_output** equal to `ON` can also cause a large volume of tabular results to be printed to the data file (unless printed output control options are used to limit the output). If the input file is in terms of parts and assemblies, setting **printed_output** equal to `ON` will cause the part-assembly map to print out in the data file regardless of the settings on the [*PREPRINT](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mpreprint) option; this allows the user to associate the printed output with the part-assembly defined in the input file. The default value for this variable is `OFF`.

****run_mode****

Default run mode (`INTERACTIVE`, `BACKGROUND`, or `BATCH`) if the user does not specify the run mode on the **abaqus** command line when running the analysis products. The default value is `BACKGROUND`. This variable should not be set to `BATCH` unless batch queues are defined. 

****split_dat****

If this variable is set to `ON`, the data file will be split into two pieces. The output from the user input processing will be put in a file with a `.pre` extension. The analysis output file will still have a `.dat` file extension. The default value is `OFF`.

****unconnected_regions****

If this variable is set to `ON`, Abaqus/Standard will create element and node sets in the output database for unconnected regions in the model during a **datacheck** analysis. Element and node sets created with this option are named `MESH COMPONENT *N*`, where *N* is the component number.

### 4.1.4 System customization parameters

****admin****

This parameter prevents unauthorized modification of environment file parameters. Set this parameter equal to a list of environment file parameters that cannot be changed in a lower-level `abaqus_v6.env` file. Unless otherwise noted, all system and job customization parameters can be locked out. Commands in the installation directory have the highest precedence, followed by commands in the user's home directory, and then commands in the current working directory. Thus, an Abaqus user cannot change environment file commands that were locked out by the Abaqus account manager.

****ask_delete****

If this parameter is set to `OFF`, the user will not be asked whether old job files of the same name should be deleted; the files will be deleted automatically. The default value is `ON`.

****compile_cpp****

C++ compile command. The command used at SIMULIA is included in the `abaqus_v6.env` file in the `/SMA/site/` subdirectory of the Abaqus installation. This command should not normally be changed. It may be either a string or a tuple of strings. If the command is a tuple of strings, each string must represent a single command line argument. The values of the placemarker are determined by the Abaqus execution procedure or by the command line options and cannot be modified by the user. The values of the placemarker replace the placemarker in the **compile_cpp** string. The following placemarker is available:

| %`I` | Search directories for include files. |
| --- | --- |

****compile_fortran****

FORTRAN compile command. The command used at SIMULIA is included in the `abaqus_v6.env` file in the `/SMA/site/` subdirectory of the Abaqus installation. This command should not normally be changed. It may be either a string or a tuple of strings. If the command is a tuple of strings, each string must represent a single command line argument.

The compilation of FORTRAN files using Fortran 90 freeform specifications is not supported by default. The `abaqus_v6.env` file in the `/SMA/site/` subdirectory of the Abaqus installation includes comments that discuss the compile options. 

****file_format****

Format of results file output (`ASCII` or `BINARY`). This parameter is valid only for Abaqus/Standard. The default value is `BINARY`.

****link_exe****

Command to link a postprocessing program. The command used at SIMULIA is included in the `abaqus_v6.env` file in the `/SMA/site/` subdirectory of the Abaqus installation. This command should not normally be changed. It can be either a string or a tuple of strings. If the command is a tuple of strings, each string must represent a single command line argument. The values of the placemarkers are determined by the Abaqus execution procedure or by the command line options and cannot be modified by the user. User-specified external libraries can be linked with the usual link commands. The following placemarkers are used in **link_exe**:

| **%J** | The job name (in this case the name of the executable to be created). |
| --- | --- |
| **%F** | The name of the object file created from the user's source file. |
| **%M** | The name of the internally created main object file. |
| **%B** | The name of the shared library of utility functions. |
| **%O** | The list of utility shared libraries for the output database application public interface. |
| **%L** | The list of directories containing shared libraries (HP only). |

****link_sl****

Command to link a shared library. The command used at SIMULIA is included in the `abaqus_v6.env` file in the `/SMA/site/` subdirectory of the Abaqus installation. This command, once its placemarkers have been exchanged, must be a valid command on the computer system where the shared library is linked. This command can be either a string or a tuple of strings. If the command is a tuple of strings, each string must represent a single command line argument. The values of the placemarkers are determined by the Abaqus execution procedure or by the command line options and cannot be modified by the user. The values of the placemarkers replace the placemarkers in the **link_sl** string. User-specified external libraries can be linked with the usual link commands. The following placemarkers are available:

| **%F** | The name of the compiled object file. |
| --- | --- |
| **%U** | The name of the shared library. |
| **%A** | The name of the archive of compiled object files to be linked into the shared library. |
| **%B** | The name of the shared library of utility functions. |
| **%E** | The name of the file containing the names of the symbols to be exported from the shared library. |
| **%L** | The list of directories containing shared libraries (HP only). |

****nodb_cache_limit****

Maximum size of the cache in the temporary file directory. Abaqus/CAE uses this cache for local data storage when you use a network ODB connector to read from a remote output database. Set the **nodb_cache_limit** parameter to the number of megabytes to which the cache size will be limited. The minimum value of **nodb_cache_limit** is 500, indicating that the cache size is limited to 500 MB. If you set the maximum cache size to be greater than the available free space, Abaqus/CAE reduces it to a value that is equal to the available free space. 

****plugin_central_dir****

Full pathname of the directory containing Abaqus/CAE plug-ins. In most cases this is a directory at a central location that is accessible to all users at your site. For more information, see [Chapter 81, "The Plug-in toolset," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-plg).

****usub_lib_dir****

Full path name of the directory containing optional user-defined libraries of Abaqus/Standard and/or Abaqus/Explicit user subroutines. Valid user subroutine libraries are platform specific, but the file base names are the same for all platforms. The base names are `standardU`, `explicitU`, and `explicitU-D`. Use this variable to avoid the cost of recompiling and/or relinking frequently used user subroutines. The **abaqus make** utility is used to create the shared libraries for use with this variable (see ["Making user-defined executables and subroutines," Section 3.2.17 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-dmakeproc)). User libraries created by the **user** option of the Abaqus/Standard and Abaqus/Explicit execution procedure will supersede any user libraries in this directory.

****verbose****

If this parameter is in the environment file, the execution procedure will print more information on job submission. Possible values are `ON`, `OFF`, `1`, `2`, and `3`. Set the value to `ON` or `1` to print the commands used to run application executables and some performance data. Set the value to `2` to print licensing transaction information. Set the value to `3` to print operating system environment settings. The output associated with the **verbose** parameter is written to standard output. The default value is `OFF`.

The following system customization parameters are used during documentation installation and to specify a web browser to display the Abaqus HTML documentation and context-sensitive help in Abaqus/CAE.

**Warning:**If you customize browser behavior for Firefox or you use a web browser not supported by Abaqus, you may encounter restrictive behavior that prevents the display of the documentation collection window. For example, you may be prompted to select a profile under which to run when attempting to access the HTML documentation with a copy of the web browser already running. 

****browser_path****

Full path to the web browser executable on Linux platforms. The value of this parameter can be either a string or a list of strings. If a list of strings is specified, the first string must be the full path to the web browser executable and subsequent strings are arguments to customize the browser behavior. If any argument strings are included, at least one of them must contain `%s` for which the full uniform resource locator (URL) to the Abaqus HTML documentation will be substituted. 

Abaqus automatically configures supported browsers to correctly display the HTML documentation. The configurations are different for each browser. This parameter can be used in conjunction with **browser_type** to clarify the browser being used. If **browser_path** is set equal to a string and **browser_type** is not set, the system checks the specified browser path for Firefox. If Abaqus does not detect Firefox, Abaqus assumes that an unsupported browser will be used and does not perform an automatic configuration. This parameter is ignored on Windows platforms.

****browser_type****

Web browser on Linux platforms. To correctly display the HTML documentation, Abaqus automatically configures the browser according to the specified browser type. The possible settings are `FIREFOX` and `CUSTOM_BROWSER`. If you set **browser_type**=`CUSTOM_BROWSER` to use a web browser other than Firefox, no support or automatic configuration is provided. For more information, see ["Using a web browser not supported by Abaqus," Section 4.3.4](ch04s03.md#sgb-env-exa-custom-browser).

This parameter can be used in conjunction with **browser_path** to directly specify an executable command for the browser. If **browser_type** is set to Firefox and **browser_path** is not set, the system searches the system path for Firefox. If the specified browser is not found, an error is displayed. This parameter is ignored on Windows platforms.

****doc_root****

Full uniform resource locator (URL) or path to the Abaqus HTML or PDF documentation. This variable is set during product installation when you provide the documentation URL and should not normally be changed. The required format is one of the following.
- For HTML documentation with a web server: ``` http://*computername*:*port_number*/v6.14/ ```
- For HTML documentation with no web server: ``` file:///*simulia_dir*/Documentation/docs/v6.14/index.html ```
- For PDF-only documentation, or if HTML and PDF were both installed but you prefer PDF, only the path to the installation base directory is required: ``` *simulia_dir * ``` Setting **doc_root** to this file path and setting **doc_root_type** to `'pdf'` will configure the `abaqus doc` command to open PDF rather than HTML documentation.

****doc_root_type****

The documentation formats specified by the **doc_root** parameter. Set to the string value `'html'` (the default) for an installation of HTML and PDF, or set to the string value `'pdf'` for PDF-only (or if PDF is preferred over HTML). These values must be lowercase.

****doc_resource****

Full path to the Adobe Acrobat Reader executable (`acroread`) on Linux platforms. The value of this parameter must be a string. Setting this parameter allows the `abaqus doc` command to open PDF rather than HTML documentation.

The following parameters disallow the execution of the corresponding modules prior to testing for license activation through the startup file. They can be used to provide “friendly” messages if an attempt is made to execute an analysis module for which your site does not have a license. Use these parameters in conjunction with the **admin** parameter to ensure uniformity across your site.

****no_aqua****

Block execution of Abaqus/Aqua if value is set to `ON`. 

****no_background****

Block background execution of Abaqus analysis jobs if value is set to `ON`.

****no_batch****

Block batch queue execution of Abaqus analysis jobs if value is set to `ON`.

****no_cae****

Block execution of Abaqus/CAE if value is set to `ON`.

****no_design****

Block execution of Abaqus/Design if value is set to `ON`.

****no_explicit****

Block execution of Abaqus/Explicit if value is set to `ON`.

****no_interactive****

Block interactive execution of Abaqus analysis jobs if value is set to `ON`.

****no_standard****

Block execution of Abaqus/Standard if value is set to `ON`.

****no_viewer****

Block execution of Abaqus/Viewer if value is set to `ON`.

### 4.1.5 Executable parameters

The Abaqus executables for the licensed modules are placed automatically into the `/code/bin/` subdirectory of the Abaqus installation. Prefix parameters (***_prefix**) can be set to `"time"` on Linux systems to determine the execution time for a particular stage of an Abaqus run.

****exe_prefix****

Optional executable prefix for all Abaqus analysis executables. The default value is an empty string.

****explicit_prefix****

Optional executable prefix for Abaqus/Explicit. The value given for this prefix will override the value given for **exe_prefix**.

****explicit_dp_prefix****

Optional executable prefix for the double precision version of Abaqus/Explicit. The value given for this prefix will override the value given for **exe_prefix**.

****package_prefix****

Optional executable prefix for the Abaqus/Explicit PACKAGE program. The value given for this prefix will override the value given for **exe_prefix**. 

****pre_prefix****

Optional executable prefix for the Abaqus analysis input file processor. The value given for this prefix will override the value given for **exe_prefix**.

****standard_prefix****

Optional executable prefix for the Abaqus/Standard program. The value given for this prefix will override the value given for **exe_prefix**. 

### 4.1.6 License management parameters

License management customization parameters control the behavior of the Abaqus license server based on current network conditions and user needs. The Abaqus license server is installed with default parameters that should be suitable for most users. The following parameters are provided for customization:

****abaquslm_license_file** **

This parameter provides the host name of the computer running the Abaqus FLEXnet license server and is set during the product installation. This parameter does not apply to DSLS license servers. If a single server is used, this parameter should be set to *port*@*license_server_host*, where *port* is the port number and *license_server_host* is the name of the computer running the server. If the port number is between 27000 and 27009, you do not need to include it. If redundant servers are used, the parameter should be set to a list of the names of the redundant server hosts and their ports. For example, if the host names for a set of three redundant servers are maple, pine, and oak, the following parameter definition is appropriate:

```
abaquslm_license_file="27000@maple:27000@pine:27000@oak"
```
Use a colon to separate the host names on Linux platforms, and use a semicolon to separate the host names on Windows platforms.

****academic****

This parameter indicates whether an academic Abaqus client should use research or teaching license tokens. Setting this parameter to `TEACHING` will force the Abaqus client to use only teaching license tokens. Setting this parameter to `RESEARCH` or removing the parameter will force Abaqus to use only research license tokens. This parameter is set automatically during the product installation: if the license server contains an Abaqus teaching license file, the installation sets the parameter to `TEACHING`; otherwise, the parameter is set to `RESEARCH`.

****cae_timeout****

The number of minutes that an Abaqus/CAE or Abaqus/Viewer session will remain idle due to no user activity before returning its token to the license server. The default value is 60 minutes.

****computer_location****

A string that indicates the location of the local client computer. This parameter allows you to subtotal license usage reports by location. The license usage reporting utility compiles and organizes data according to the **computer_location** name. The default value is an empty string. If you do not change this default, the license usage report will not distinguish between different locations in the report.

****dsls_license_config****

Path to the Dassault Systmes license server (DSLS) configuration file (`DSLicSrv.txt`). This file determines which Dassault Systmes license servers to use with Abaqus. For example, 

**Linux platforms**: 

```
/opt/simulia/license/DSLicSrv.txt
```

**Windows platforms**:  (must use double backslashes)

```
C:\\SIMULIA\\License\\DSLicSrv.txt
```
For more information about the `DSLicSrv.txt` file, see “Configuring Clients” in the *Dassault Systmes License Server Installation and Configuration Guide* (`DSLS.pdf`).

****license_server_type****

The type of license server software used by Abaqus clients. Possible values are `FLEXNET` (default) and `DSLS`. See ["Dassault Systmes license server installation," Section 2.1.2](ch02s01.md#sgb-chp-install-glance-lic-ds), and ["FLEXnet Licensing installation," Section 2.1.3](ch02s01.md#sgb-chp-install-glance-lic), for more information.

****lmhanglimit****

The number of minutes that an Abaqus client will wait in the license queue to obtain licenses if no licenses are currently available. The default value of 0 forces the job to remain in the license queue indefinitely unless it is killed by the user.

****lminteractivequeuing****

This parameter indicates whether an interactive Abaqus/CAE or Abaqus/Viewer session should queue for a license if one is not available. To allow Abaqus/CAE or Abaqus/Viewer sessions running interactively to queue for a license, set this parameter equal to `ON`. The default value is `OFF`. The **lmlicensequeuing** parameter is used for queuing sessions running without the graphical user interface.

****lmlicensequeuing****

This parameter indicates whether an Abaqus analysis job or an Abaqus/CAE or Abaqus/Viewer session using the **noGUI** option should queue for a license if one is not available. The default value is `ON`. If this parameter is set to `OFF`, jobs and Abaqus/CAE or Abaqus/Viewer sessions will terminate immediately if a license is not available. The **lminteractivequeuing** parameter is used for queuing sessions running interactively.

****lmlog****

This parameter indicates whether license usage data should be written to the FLEXnet debug log file. To use the Abaqus license usage reporting utility (see ["Reporting FLEXnet license usage data," Section 3.8](ch03s08.md)), this parameter must be set to `ON`, which is the default value. To suppress license usage data in the debug log file, set this parameter equal to `OFF`.

****lmproject****

This optional parameter can be used to record information about internal project names or numbers for your company. The **lmproject** parameter can be set to any string value; for example, `lmproject=“*turbomachinery-project-23*”`. This parameter can be set in the environment file in each users' home directory and can be edited whenever necessary to change to a different project name.

The information about Abaqus license checkouts and associated project names is recorded on the license server and can be retrieved by obtaining historical reports using the accessor `project`. See ["Using the `reporttool` utility," Section 3.10](ch03s10.md).

****lmqueuesleep****

The number of seconds that an Abaqus client will wait before checking the license queue to see if enough tokens are free. The default value is 30 seconds, which is the minimum allowed. Increasing this value will decrease network traffic when license queuing occurs.

****lmsvrdownlimit****

The number of minutes that an Abaqus client will attempt to connect to the license server if the license server is currently unavailable. The default value of 0 forces the job to attempt to connect indefinitely unless it is killed by the user.

### 4.1.7 Object-oriented batch queue parameter

The object-oriented interface for defining an analysis batch queue is easily customized and extended. An analysis batch queue is available from the Abaqus execution procedure command line once it has been instantiated and inserted into the dictionary of analysis queues. See ["Defining analysis batch queues," Section 4.2](ch04s02.md), for more information.

****queues****

Dictionary of queue names and objects. Queue names and their corresponding object instances are inserted into the dictionary as key/value pairs. The special queue name **default** can be used to designate a default queue. The default queue is used when the **run_mode** is set to `BATCH` and the **queue** option is not specified on the command line. It is also used when the **queue** option is specified on the command line but the named queue is blank or does not exist in the **queues** dictionary.

### 4.1.8 String-based batch queue parameters

The string-based interface for defining an analysis batch queue allows access to a fixed number of options. The parameters below can be used to construct command strings to control the execution of an Abaqus analysis. The only requirement is the string must be a valid command on the computer system where it is executed. See ["Defining a string-based analysis batch queue," Section 4.3.7](ch04s03.md#sgb-env-exa-stringbatchqueue), for an example.

****after_prefix****

Optional prefix to be output as part of the submit command when the **after** option is specified on the command line. The default value is an empty string.

****queue_cmd****

Default command to be used to submit a batch job when the **run_mode** is set to `BATCH`. This parameter, once its placemarkers have been exchanged, must be a valid command on the computer system where it is executed. The values of the placemarkers are defined by input specified on the command line of the Abaqus execution procedure or by environment file parameters. The values of the placemarkers replace the placemarkers in the **queue_cmd** string. The following placemarkers are available:

| **%%** | A percent (%) character. |
| --- | --- |
| **%A** | The **after_prefix** string is substituted for **%A** when the **after** option is specified on the command line. |
| **%L** | The log file name. This token will be replaced by `*job-name*.log`, where *job-name* is the value defined by the **job** command line option. |
| **%P** | The **queue_prefix** string (see description below) is substituted for **%P** when the **queue** option is specified on the command line. |
| **%Q** | The queue name from the **queue** command line option. |
| **%S** | The command script file name. This token will be replaced by `*job-name*.com`, where *job-name* is the value defined by the **job** command line option. |
| **%T** | The time from the **after** command line option. |
| **%J** | The job name from the **job** command line option. |
| **%E** | The token is substituted by the full path to the Python executable. |
| **%O** | The full path to the output directory. |

****queue_name****

List of names for batch commands, typically used for submitting jobs to queues other than the default (defined by **queue_cmd**). Then, elsewhere in the environment file, each of these command aliases must appear on the left side of the equal sign, with the desired command string on the right. This command string has the same format as the **queue_cmd** parameter. It can use the replaceable placemarkers in its construction as long as the final result is a valid system command.

****queue_prefix****

Optional prefix to be output as part of the submit command when a queue name is specified. The default value is an empty string.

### 4.1.9 Adams translation units parameters

The **abaqus adams** translator refers to the environment file parameters in this section to specify default values for the units used in the modal neutral  (`.mnf`) file it creates. For more information about valid units specifications in ADAMS/View, see ["Units" in "Translating Abaqus data to MSC.ADAMS modal neutral files," Section 3.2.36 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-dabaadmproc-units). These parameters provide the default values only; if you specify a units preference using one of the parameters in the **abaqus adams** execution procedure, your selection overrides the default setting.

****adams_units_family****

The type of units system for the model. The possible values are `mmks`, `mks`, `cgs`, or `ips`, which correspond to the ADAMS/View options with the same names.

****adams_length_units****

The length units specified for the model in the modal neutral  (`.mnf`) file.

****adams_mass_units****

The mass units for the model in the modal neutral  (`.mnf`) file.

****adams_time_units****

The time units for the model in the modal neutral  (`.mnf`) file.

****adams_force_units****

The force units for the model in the modal neutral  (`.mnf`) file.

### 4.1.10 Job variables

The following variables can be used in an **onJobStartup** or **onJobCompletion** function:

****id****

The job identifier specified as the value of the **job** option on the command line.

****savedir****

The path name to the directory from which the job was submitted.

****scrdir****

The path name to the scratch directory. 

****analysisType****

The type of analysis to be executed. Possible values are `EXPLICIT` and `STANDARD`.

In addition, for an MPI-based parallel job the following variables are available in an **onJobStartup** or **onJobCompletion** function:

****host_list****

List of host machine names that were used for the analysis, including the number of processors used on each machine. The format is identical to the **mp_host_list** environment variable (see ["Parallelization parameters," Section 4.1.2](ch04s01.md#sgb-chp-env-parallel)).

****local_host****

List of identifiers used to determine the host machine name from which the job was submitted (e.g., host name, IP address, aliases, etc.).

****rsh_command****

Command used to open a remote shell on the machines that were used during analysis. The format is identical to the **mp_rsh_command** environment variable (see ["Parallelization parameters," Section 4.1.2](ch04s01.md#sgb-chp-env-parallel)).

****file_system****

Tuple showing the type of file system used for the MPI-based parallel job. The first item in the tuple refers to the directory where the job was submitted, while the second refers to the job's scratch directory. For MPI-based parallel Abaqus/Explicit analyses that do not use a user subroutine, the scratch directory will remain as `DETECT` unless it was set by the user.

****cpus****

Number of total processors used for the analysis summed across all host machines.

The following variables are available outside of the **onJobStartup** and **onJobCompletion** functions:

****abaqus_version****

A string that contains the Abaqus release.

****analysisType****

The type of analysis to be executed. Possible values are `EXPLICIT` and `STANDARD`.

****applicationName****

The name of the Abaqus execution procedure to be executed; e.g., `analysis`, `cae`, or `viewer`.




