# S







### scale factor animation

A series of plots in Abaqus/CAE created from a single step and frame of the output database (ODB). The different plots are formed by multiplying the deformation scale factor by a range of animation scale factors.
For more information:- ["Scale factor animation," Section 49.1.2 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usv-anm-understandscale)

### scratch output database (`.ods`) file

A file (`*job_name*.ods`) that contains a [session step](gl01gls20.md#gls-sessionstep) and is deleted automatically when the original output database file is closed or when the Abaqus/CAE session ends.
For more information:- ["Understanding the files generated by creating and analyzing a model," Section 9.4 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-dbs-conc-filesgenerated)

### script

A type of program that consists of a set of instructions to an application. In Abaqus/CAE almost every operation that you perform during a session can be duplicated by a script containing a set of Abaqus/CAE commands. You can find examples of Abaqus/CAE commands in the replay file (`abaqus.rpy`) that is written automatically during every Abaqus/CAE session.
For more information:- ["Understanding the files generated by creating and analyzing a model," Section 9.4 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-dbs-conc-filesgenerated)

### secondary cursor

An active cursor within the Abaqus/CAE Sketch module that looks like a plus sign (+) and appears near the primary cursor whenever the Sketch module prompts you to select a point. By default, if you move the primary cursor near a point that is eligible for selection, the secondary cursor jumps directly to the point while the primary cursor remains fixed; therefore, you can easily see exactly which point is selected before committing the selection. See also [primary cursor](gl01gls17.md#gls-primarycursor).
For more information:- ["The Sketcher cursors and preselection," Section 20.4.5 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-ske-secondarycursor)

### section definition

The data that specify the properties of regions in an Abaqus/CAE assembly or in a set of elements in an Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, or Abaqus/CFD model. A section definition can contain information such as a material name, Poisson's ratio, transverse shear data, and various other parameters.
For more information:- [Chapter 12, "The Property module," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-prp)

### section point

An integration point. When you define shell or beam sections that are integrated during an analysis, you must specify the number of section integration points through the thickness of the section. A group of section points is located at each material integration point over the surface of a shell element or along the length of a beam element.
For more information:- [Chapter 12, "The Property module," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-prp)

### seed

Markers that you place along the edges of an unmeshed assembly in Abaqus/CAE to indicate the desired density of the mesh. By default, mesh seeds provide only a target mesh density; if necessary, the mesh generator alters the original seed distribution to generate the mesh successfully. You can prevent this redistribution by constraining seeds.
For more information:- ["Understanding seeding," Section 17.4 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-mgn-conc-seed)

### session

The time during which a program accepts input, processes information, and responds to user commands. An Abaqus/CAE session begins when you start Abaqus/CAE and continues until you exit.
For more information:- ["Starting and exiting Abaqus/CAE," Section 2.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#uss-gst-startexit)

### session step

A step in the [scratch output database file](gl01gls20.md#gls-scratch-odb) (`*job_name*.ods`) in which Abaqus/CAE saves field output that you have created by either operating on existing field output variables or combining results from several analysis frames.
For more information:- ["Starting and exiting Abaqus/CAE," Section 2.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#uss-gst-startexit)

### set

A named region or collection of objects on which you can perform various operations. See also [node set](gl01gls15.md#gls-nodeset), [element set](gl01gls06.md#gls-elementset), [geometry set](gl01gls08.md#gls-geometricset) and [discrete set](gl01gls05.md#gls-discreteset).
For more information:- ["Input syntax rules," Section 1.2.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-iinputsyntax)

- ["Understanding sets and surfaces," Section 73.2 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-set-concepts)

### Set toolset

An Abaqus/CAE toolset that allows you to create and manage sets in all Abaqus/CAE modules except the Visualization module.
For more information:- [Chapter 73, "The Set and Surface toolsets," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-set)

### shell

In reference to an element formulation, a shell is an element formulation that captures bending and membrane behavior suitable for structures where the thickness is small relative to other dimensions.
For more information:- ["Shell elements," Section 29.6 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usbeshell)

In reference to a geometry type, a shell is a surface geometry.
For more information:- ["The relationship between parts and features," Section 11.3.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-prt-conc-parts-features)

### shell sections

The section properties of shell regions. Shells model structures in which one dimension (the thickness) is significantly smaller than the other two dimensions and in which the stresses in the thickness direction are negligible. 
For more information:- ["Shell section behavior," Section 29.6.4 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-elm-eshellsectionbehavior)

- ["Defining sections," Section 12.2.3 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-prp-prop-section)

### sizing method

The method used by Abaqus/CAE to generate new element sizes during the adaptive remesh process. For a particular variable, a sizing method reads and operates on a field of base solution values and their corresponding error indicator output variables from a region defined by the remeshing rule. Abaqus uses the sizing method to calculate new element sizes. Abaqus/CAE provides two sizing methods: **Uniform error distribution** and **Minimum/maximum control**.
For more information:- ["Sizing methods" in "Solution-based mesh sizing," Section 12.3.3 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-aadpsizing-methods)

- ["Choosing the remeshing rule sizing method," Section 17.21.3 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-mgn-adaptivity-rulesizing)

### sketch

A two-dimensional profile that is used to help form the geometry defining an Abaqus/CAE native part. You use sketches to create planar or axisymmetric features; or you can extrude, revolve, or sweep a sketch to form a three-dimensional feature.
For more information:- [Chapter 20, "The Sketch module," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-ske)

### sketch coordinates

The cursor coordinates that appear in the upper-right corner of the Sketcher as you create new sketch geometry. Sketch coordinates appear only when they differ from the current grid coordinates—when the grid origin or rotation has been changed.
For more information:- ["Realigning the sketch grid relative to the sketch," Section 20.4.4 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-ske-reorient)

### Sketcher

An Abaqus/CAE toolset that allows you to sketch the lines and curves that form the two-dimensional profile of a feature, to add constraints to the sketch, and to modify the sketch in Abaqus/CAE.
For more information:- [Chapter 20, "The Sketch module," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-ske)

### Sketch module

An Abaqus/CAE module used to create a sketch that defines a planar part, a beam, or a partition or to create a sketch that might be extruded, swept, or revolved to form a three-dimensional part.
For more information:- [Chapter 20, "The Sketch module," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-ske)

### slider

An indicator on a gauge in Abaqus/CAE dialog boxes that you drag to set the value of an option that has a continuous range of possible values.
For more information:- ["Using basic dialog box components," Section 3.2.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#uss-int-dialog-basic)

### SMP (shared memory parallel)

A mode of parallel execution where multiple processors share a single address space.  Abaqus supports thread-based SMP.
For more information:- ["Parallel execution," Section 3.5 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usbapar)

### solid sections

A collection of information that defines the section properties of two-dimensional, three-dimensional, and axisymmetric solid regions. 
For more information:- ["Defining sections," Section 12.2.3 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-prp-prop-section)

### solver

A term used to refer to Abaqus products: Abaqus/Standard (implicit), Abaqus/Explicit (explicit), and Abaqus/CFD (computational fluid dynamics). See also [equation solver](gl01gls06.md#gls-eqnsolver).

### spline

A curve defined by a mathematical function that connects separate points with a high degree of smoothness. Use the spline tool in the Abaqus/CAE Sketch module to sketch a smooth curve that connects a series of points. Abaqus/CAE calculates the shape of the curve using a cubic spline fit between all the points along the spline; as a result, the first and second derivatives of the spline are continuous.
For more information:- ["Sketching splines," Section 20.10.10 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-ske-splinebtn)

### stand-alone sketch

An Abaqus/CAE sketch that is independent of any particular feature; you can incorporate a stand-alone sketch into the current sketch.
For more information:- ["Stand-alone sketches," Section 20.3.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-ske-standalone)

### status (`.sta`) file

A file  (`*job_name*.sta`) generated during an Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, or Abaqus/CFD analysis job that contains information about the progress of the analysis.
For more information:- ["Output," Section 4.1.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-out-ooutput)

- ["Degree of freedom monitor requests," Section 14.5.4 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-sim-conc-monitor)

### STEP [STandard for the Exchange of Product model data (STEP ISO 10303--1)]

A replacement standard for IGES that attempts to overcome some of the shortcomings of IGES. The STEP format is designed to provide computer-interpretable representation of a product throughout its lifecycle, independent of any particular system. You can import STEP format parts, and you can export parts in STEP-format. In addition, you can import and export a sketch from a STEP file.
For more information:- ["Importing files into and exporting files from Abaqus/CAE," Section 10.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-imp-concepts)

- ["Importing parts," Section 10.7.2 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-dbs-import-part)

- ["Exporting geometry, model, and mesh data," Section 10.9 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-imp-export)

### step

A sequence that provides a convenient way to capture changes in the loading and boundary conditions of the model, changes in the way parts of the model interact with each other, and any other changes that may occur in the model during the course of the analysis. In addition, steps allow you to change the analysis procedure, the data output, and various controls. You can also use steps to define linear perturbation analyses about nonlinear base states.
For more information:- ["Defining a model in Abaqus," Section 1.3.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-imodel)

- ["What is a step?," Section 14.3.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-sim-conc-unsteps)

### step-dependent manager

An Abaqus/CAE dialog box that contains a list of all of the objects of a certain type that you have created, as well as **Create**, **Edit**, **Copy**, **Rename**, and **Delete** buttons that you can use to manipulate existing objects and to create new ones. A step-dependent manager is similar to a [basic manager](gl01gls03.md#gls-basicmanager), but it contains additional information concerning the history of each object listed in the manager.
For more information:- ["What are step-dependent managers?," Section 3.4.2 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#uss-int-step-manager)

### step-dependent object

An object that you can create and, in some cases, modify and deactivate in particular steps of an analysis. Loads, boundary conditions, and interactions are step-dependent objects.
For more information:- ["What are step-dependent managers?," Section 3.4.2 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#uss-int-step-manager)

### Step module

An Abaqus/CAE module used to create and define analysis steps and to request output for each step. You can also use the Step module to specify adaptive meshing as well as contact and general solution controls.
For more information:- [Chapter 14, "The Step module," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-sim)

### stream

A set of streamlines for visualization of data in a fluid flow analysis. 
For more information:- [Chapter 74, "The Stream toolset," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-str)

### streamline

A curve that is instantaneously tangent to the velocity vector of the flow. Streamlines show the direction a fluid element will travel in at any point in time in a fluid flow analysis.
For more information:- [Chapter 74, "The Stream toolset," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-str)

### structured meshing

An Abaqus/CAE technique that generates structured meshes using simple predefined mesh topologies. Abaqus/CAE transforms the mesh of a regularly shaped region, such as a square or a cube, onto the geometry of the region you want to mesh. 
For more information:- ["Structured meshing and mapped meshing," Section 17.8 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-mgn-conc-mapped)

### substructure

A collection of elements from which the internal degrees of freedom have been eliminated.
For more information:- ["Using substructures," Section 10.1.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-asuperelements)

- ["Defining substructures," Section 10.1.2 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-asuperelementdef)

- [Chapter 39, "Substructures," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-adv-substructures)

### substructure database

A set of files that describe the geometry of a substructure. Abaqus writes all substructure data to the substructure database during the analysis. 
For more information:- ["Defining substructures," Section 10.1.2 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-asuperelementdef)

- [Chapter 39, "Substructures," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-adv-substructures)

### substructure dynamic modes

Eigenmodes and residual modes that are retained in a substructure definition. 
For more information:- ["Defining substructures," Section 10.1.2 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-asuperelementdef)

- [Chapter 39, "Substructures," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-adv-substructures)

### suppress

The process of temporarily deleting a feature from an Abaqus/CAE model to simplify the appearance of a part or assembly. In addition, suppressing a feature can increase the speed of regeneration. See also [resume](gl01gls19.md#gls-resume).
For more information:- ["Using the Feature Manipulation toolset," Section 65.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-fts-concepts)

### surface

A named region that can be defined on the faces, edges, or nodes of a geometric rigid body or a discrete finite element model. A surface definition can also contain information to distinguish between the positive and negative sides of the surface.
For more information:- ["Surfaces: overview," Section 2.3.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-asurfoverview)

- [Chapter 73, "The Set and Surface toolsets," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-set)

### Surface toolset

An Abaqus/CAE toolset that allows you to create and manage surfaces in all Abaqus/CAE modules except the Visualization module.
For more information:- [Chapter 73, "The Set and Surface toolsets," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-set)

### swept meshing

A technique used by Abaqus/CAE to mesh complex extruded or revolved solid regions as well as revolved surface regions. The swept meshing technique involves two phases: 
- Abaqus/CAE creates a mesh on one side of the region, known as the source side.
- Abaqus/CAE copies the nodes of that mesh, one element layer at a time, until the final side, known as the target side, is reached.

For more information:- ["Swept meshing," Section 17.9 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-mgn-conc-sweep)

### symbol plot

An Abaqus/CAE plot that shows the magnitude and direction of a particular vector or tensor variable at a specified step and frame of the analysis. Abaqus/CAE represents the values as symbols (arrows) drawn at the locations in the model where the results were obtained.
For more information:- [Chapter 45, "Plotting analysis results as symbols," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usv-symbol)

### synchronization

The process by which Abaqus/CAE animates data in every animation-eligible viewport in your session at the same time so that the viewports play, stop, and increment together when you examine data frame by frame, animate a model plot, or animate a time-dependent *X–Y* plot.
For more information:- ["Controlling animations in multiple viewports," Section 49.4.6 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usv-anm-synch)




