# K







### kernel

The brains behind Abaqus/CAE that interpret the Python commands generated by the GUI and use the options and settings to create an internal representation of your model.
For more information:- ["Abaqus/CAE and the Abaqus Scripting Interface," Section 2.1 of the Abaqus Scripting User's Guide](../cmd/cmd-link.md#cmd-acl-int-intro-overview)

### kernel matrix

The Jacobian (i.e., stiffness) matrix used in the full Newton technique to solve nonlinear problems. The quasi-Newton technique is an alternative solution approach that can be less expensive than the default full Newton technique. The difference between the two approaches lies in the number of times that the Jacobian is reformed. The quasi-Newton technique reforms this matrix less often than the full Newton method, allowing for the possibility of a faster solution. The user has no control over how often the Jacobian is reformed in the full Newton technique, whereas with the quasi-Newton approach this can be adjusted.  The kernel matrix is the mathematical derivation of the quasi-Newton technique, in which the kernel matrix is an approximate representation of the inverse of the full Jacobian.  
For more information:- ["Convergence criteria for nonlinear problems," Section 7.2.3 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-aconvergcriteria)

- ["Configuring general analysis procedures," Section 14.11.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-sim-configure-general)

- ["Quasi-Newton solution technique," Section 2.2.2 of the Abaqus Theory Guide](../stm/stm-link.md#stm-anl-quasinewtsol)

### keyword

An input option in Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, and Abaqus/CFD that indicates the kind of data definitions specified in option blocks. For example, if you want to use a particular material in an analysis, you must add an option block beginning with the keyword [*MATERIAL](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mmaterial) to the input file. Keywords are always preceded by an asterisk and appear in uppercase characters in the Abaqus documentation.
For more information:- [Abaqus Keywords Reference Guide](../key/key-link.md#key)

- ["Input syntax rules," Section 1.2.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-iinputsyntax)

### keyword line

The first line of an option block in an Abaqus input file. Keyword lines begin with a particular keyword, followed, in some cases, by parameters associated with the keyword. For example, the keyword line of an option block describing a material might appear as [*MATERIAL](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mmaterial), NAME=*name*. In this case [*MATERIAL](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mmaterial) is the keyword and NAME is a parameter that allows you to specify the name of the material being defined.
For more information:- ["Input syntax rules," Section 1.2.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-iinputsyntax)

### keyword parameter

Words or phrases on a keyword line that are used to define the behavior of an option. Parameters can stand alone or have a value, and they may be required or optional. An example is the keyword parameter TYPE used with the keyword [*ELEMENT](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-melement) to specify what type of element (such as solid, beam, or shell) is being defined. See also [input parameter](gl01gls10.md#gls-inputparam) to learn how input parameters are used in Abaqus/Design.

### keywords editor

A specialized text editor that allows you to modify an Abaqus input file generated by Abaqus/CAE before submitting it for analysis.
For more information:- ["Adding unsupported keywords to your Abaqus/CAE model," Section 9.10.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-dbs-addkeywords)




