# I







### IGES (Initial Graphics Exchange Specification) file

A neutral data format designed for graphics exchange between computer-aided design (CAD) systems. Using Abaqus/CAE, you can import IGES-format parts, and you can export parts in IGES format. In addition, you can import and export a sketch from an IGES file. 
For more information:- [Chapter 10, "Importing and exporting geometry data and models," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-imp)

### increment

An interval of an analysis step.
For more information:- ["Defining an analysis," Section 6.1.2 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-aover)

- ["Specifying model attributes," Section 9.8.4 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-dbs-editmodel)

### initial condition

A condition you prescribe to define the initial value of a solution, state, or field variable such as stress or temperature. You can define initial conditions by creating predefined fields in the Load module.
For more information:- ["Initial conditions in Abaqus/Standard and Abaqus/Explicit," Section 34.2.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-prc-pinitialcond)

- ["Initial conditions in Abaqus/CFD," Section 34.2.2 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-prc-pinitialcondcfd)

- ["Creating and modifying prescribed conditions," Section 16.4 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-lbi-edit-editors)

### input file

An ASCII file that is read and processed by Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, or Abaqus/CFD and contains keywords and data that define your model. When you submit a job for analysis using Abaqus/CAE, it generates an input file based on the model you have defined. If necessary, you can modify the input file generated by Abaqus/CAE using the Keywords Editor. In addition, you can import Abaqus/Standard or Abaqus/Explicit input files into Abaqus/CAE; Abaqus/CAE translates the options and data lines in the imported input file into a new Abaqus/CAE model.
For more information:- ["Defining a model in Abaqus," Section 1.3.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-imodel)

- ["Understanding the files generated by creating and analyzing a model," Section 9.4 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-dbs-conc-filesgenerated)

- ["Importing a model from an Abaqus input file," Section 10.5.2 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-imp-inputfiles)

### input parameter

A capability in Abaqus/Design that allows you to create an input file in which parameters are used in place of input quantities. The parameters are evaluated according to their definition and are substituted for the parametrized quantities before an analysis is performed by Abaqus/Standard or Abaqus/Explicit. See also [keyword parameter](gl01gls12.md#gls-keywordparam) to learn how keyword parameters are used in an Abaqus input file.
For more information:- ["Scripting parametric studies," Section 20.1.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-scr-pscriptparstudies)

### instance

See [part instance](gl01gls17.md#gls-partinstance).

### interaction

Step-dependent objects that define how bodies or regions in a model act with each other or with their surrounding environment; examples include contact, kinematic relationships associated with mechanical connectors, and thermal constraints such as convection or radiation boundary conditions. Interactions also establish dependencies between fields such as coupled thermal-mechanical, coupled pore fluid-mechanical, and coupled thermal-electrical effects. In Abaqus/CAE an elastic foundation is also considered a form of interaction.
For more information:- [Part IX, "Interactions," of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usbcontactchapter)

- [Chapter 15, "The Interaction module," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-itn)

### Interaction module

An Abaqus/CAE module used to define [interactions](gl01gls10.md#gls-interaction) between regions of a model or between a region of a model and its surroundings.
For more information:- [Chapter 15, "The Interaction module," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-itn)

### interaction property

A collection of data that are necessary to define certain types of interactions completely.
For more information:- ["Contact interaction analysis: overview," Section 36.1.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-cni-acontactoverview)

- [Chapter 15, "The Interaction module," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-itn)




