# O







### online documentation

The Abaqus HTML documentation, which contains all the available content including context-sensitive help pages and is the primary format. 
For more information:- [Part II, "Using the Abaqus HTML Documentation," of Using Abaqus Online Documentation](../hhp/hhp-link.md#hhp-html)

### option

See [keyword](gl01gls12.md#gls-keyword). Also refers to choices presented to you by the Abaqus/CAE graphical user interface.
For more information:- ["Input syntax rules," Section 1.2.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-iinputsyntax)

### option block

A group of keywords that must be used in conjunction with other keywords. An option block contains data concerning a particular option (or keyword) that describes part of the problem definition. An option block begins with a keyword line and is often followed by one or more data lines. You choose those options that are relevant for a particular application. Parameters available on the command line are also referred to as options.
For more information:- ["Input syntax rules," Section 1.2.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-iinputsyntax)

- [Abaqus Keywords Reference Guide](../key/key-link.md#key)

### orphan mesh

A collection of nodes, elements, surfaces, and sets with no associated geometry. In effect, the mesh information has been orphaned from its parent geometry. You can import a part into Abaqus/CAE from an output database or from an input file in the form of an orphan mesh. You can also create an orphan mesh part from the meshed assembly in the Mesh module. An orphan mesh part appears in the model's list of parts; however, you cannot add geometric features to it. You can use the Edit Mesh toolset in the Part module to edit the mesh definition, and you can change the element type assigned to the mesh in the Mesh module.
For more information:- ["What can I do with the Edit Mesh toolset?," Section 64.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-edt-conc-meshedit)

### output database (`.odb`)

A file (`*job_name*.odb`) that contain the results from your analysis. You use the Visualization module to open an output database and to view a graphical representation of the contents. In addition, you can import a part from an output database in the form of an orphan mesh.
For more information:- ["Output to the output database," Section 4.1.3 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-out-odboutput)

- ["Opening a model database or an output database," Section 9.7.2 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-dbs-mdb-open)

- ["Understanding the files generated by creating and analyzing a model," Section 9.4 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-dbs-conc-filesgenerated)

### output request

An instruction for Abaqus to write data of interest to various output files, such as the data (`.dat`) file, the output database (`.odb`) file, and the restart  (`.res`) file. The variables that Abaqus writes during a step, the rate at which they are written, the region of the model associated with the output, and the section points of interest define an output request.
For more information:- ["Output," Section 4.1.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-out-ooutput)

- ["Understanding output requests," Section 14.4 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-sim-concepts-output)




