# P







### parameter

A variable quantity that restricts or gives particular form to the thing that it characterizes. In Abaqus/CAE parameter refers to modifiable parameters that define features (for example, the length of an extrusion). It is also used in the term [edge parameter](gl01gls06.md#gls-edgeparameter) to describe a position along an edge, expressed as a fraction of its length. See also [keyword parameter](gl01gls12.md#gls-keywordparam) to learn how parameters are used in Abaqus input files, and see [input parameter](gl01gls10.md#gls-inputparam) to learn how they are used in Abaqus/Design.
For more information:- ["Input syntax rules," Section 1.2.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-iinputsyntax)

- [Chapter 65, "The Feature Manipulation toolset," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-fts)

### Parasolid

A solid modeling system developed by Unigraphics. You can import Parasolid-format parts generated by Parasolid Version 7 through Version 13. You cannot export parts in Parasolid format.
For more information:- ["What kinds of files can be imported and exported from Abaqus/CAE?," Section 10.1.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-imp-concepts-whatkind)

- ["Importing parts," Section 10.7.2 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-dbs-import-part)

### parent feature

See [child feature](gl01gls04.md#gls-childfeature).

### part

The geometry building blocks of an Abaqus/CAE model. You assemble instances of parts to create an assembly that you can then mesh and analyze.
For more information:- ["Defining an assembly," Section 2.10.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-ipartassy)

- ["Understanding the role of the Part module," Section 11.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-prt-intro)

### part instance

A reusable copy of the original Abaqus/CAE part, except that an instance also maintains its association with the original part; if you modify the part, the part instance is also modified at the same time. When you assemble your model, you work with part instances, not with the original parts.
For more information:- ["Defining an assembly," Section 2.10.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-ipartassy)

- ["Working with part instances," Section 13.3 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-asm-concepts)

### partition

A feature used to divide an Abaqus/CAE part or assembly into regions. Such regions have many uses; for example, applying loads or assigning mesh attributes.
For more information:- [Chapter 70, "The Partition toolset," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-par)

### Partition toolset

An Abaqus/CAE toolset that allows you to divide a part or assembly into regions.
For more information:- [Chapter 70, "The Partition toolset," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-par)

### Part module

An Abaqus/CAE module used to create, edit, and manage the parts in the current model.
For more information:- [Chapter 11, "The Part module," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-prt)

### part-related modules

Abaqus/CAE modules in which parts are displayed in the viewport. The Part and Property modules are considered part-related modules.
For more information:- ["What is a module?," Section 2.3 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#uss-top-whatis-module)

### part set

An Abaqus/CAE set consisting of a region of a part. Part sets are available only when you are in the Part or Property modules.
For more information:- ["How do part sets and assembly sets differ?," Section 73.2.2 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-set-conc-difference)

### path

A line you define by specifying a series of points through your model. You can view results along the path in the form of an *X–Y* plot.
For more information:- [Chapter 48, "Viewing results along a path," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usv-path)

### plot state

A combination of all the active customization options that produce a plot in the viewport. You enter a particular plot state by producing a plot of the corresponding type. For example, if you produce an undeformed plot, the current viewport will then be in the undeformed plot state. The plot state of a viewport persists, and Abaqus/CAE updates it with any changes you make to the customization options until you produce a plot in some other state in that viewport. 
For more information:- ["What is a plot state?," Section 40.3.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usv-concept-plotstates-whatis)

### plug-in

A piece of software that installs itself into another application to extend the capabilities of that application. 
For more information:- ["What is a plug-in?," Section 81.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-plg-whatis)

- [Chapter 82, "Abaqus plug-ins," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-plg-examples)

### PNG (Portable Network Graphics)

An industry standard for storing bitmap images. A PNG file consists of color information and a compressed bitmap representation of the image. Abaqus/CAE allows you to save images of selected viewports in PNG-format files.
For more information:- ["Printed image formats," Section 8.1.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#uss-pri-conc-gif)

### position constraint

A constraint used to prescribe the relative positions of part instances during assembly in Abaqus/CAE.
For more information:- ["How the position constraint methods differ," Section 13.5.2 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-asm-concept-alignmate)

### positioning point

A point that locates the first [fastening point](gl01gls07.md#gls-fasteningpoint) of mesh-independent fasteners. A positioning point can reside on the first surface to be fastened, or it can reside close to the first surface and be projected along a normal or a user-specified direction. 
For more information:- ["Specifying the positioning points, projection method, and fastening points" in "Mesh-independent fasteners," Section 35.3.4 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-cni-afastener-points)

### PostScript

A page-description language developed by Adobe Systems that offers a flexible font capability and high-quality graphics. PostScript uses English-like commands to control page layout and to load and scale outline fonts. Abaqus/CAE allows you to print images of selected viewports directly to a PostScript printer or to save the same image in a PostScript-format file. 
For more information:- ["Printed image formats," Section 8.1.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#uss-pri-conc-gif)

### predefined field

A time-dependent, non-solution-dependent condition that exists over the spatial domain of the model.
For more information:- ["Predefined fields," Section 34.6.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-prc-pfields)

- ["Creating and modifying prescribed conditions," Section 16.4 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-lbi-edit-editors)

### prescribed condition

An external condition such as a load, an initial condition, or a boundary condition applied to a model.
For more information:- ["Prescribed conditions: overview," Section 34.1.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-prc-pprescribedover)

- [Chapter 16, "The Load module," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-lbi)

### preselection

A change in the appearance of objects on the screen to help you make the desired selections for a particular Abaqus/CAE procedure. Two types of preselection are available:
- Preselection highlighting appears in an Abaqus/CAE viewport when you stop moving the cursor. Any objects that would be selected at the current cursor position are highlighted in orange.
- Preselection symbols appear on an Abaqus/CAE sketch as you move the cursor around to select a point, such as the center of a circle or the end of a line. Preselection symbols help you position the cursor and indicate a point on the sketch that can be selected, such as a vertex or a midpoint.

 If you click when preselection highlighting or a preselection symbol is visible, Abaqus/CAE selects the indicated object.For more information:- ["Selecting and unselecting individual objects," Section 6.2.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#uss-pic-select1)

- ["The Sketcher cursors and preselection," Section 20.4.5 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-ske-secondarycursor)

### primary axis

An approximate material direction for a [discrete orientation](gl01gls05.md#gls-discreteorient). Abaqus/CAE uses the primary axis and the [normal axis](gl01gls15.md#gls-normalaxis) to construct a right-handed Cartesian coordinate system. You choose the coordinate system axis that you want the primary axis to represent in the resultant orientation and select topology or datums or enter vector values to define the desired axis.
For more information:- ["Using discrete orientations for material orientations and composite layup orientations," Section 12.16 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-prp-discrete-orient)

### primary cursor

An active cursor that you use with most applications on your computer. The primary cursor usually appears as an arrow pointer; you position this cursor by moving the mouse. See also [secondary cursor](gl01gls20.md#gls-secondcursor).
For more information:- ["The Sketcher cursors and preselection," Section 20.4.5 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-ske-secondarycursor)

### printed output (`.dat`) file

A file (`*job_name*.dat`) that contains information generated by the Abaqus analysis input file preprocessor, including the model definition and any error or warning messages that were detected while processing the input data. In addition, the printed output file contains any printed output data written during the analysis.
For more information:- ["Output," Section 4.1.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-out-ooutput)

- ["Output to the data and results files," Section 4.1.2 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-out-oprintfile)

- ["Understanding output requests," Section 14.4 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-sim-concepts-output)

### privileged plane

The base of the [3D compass](gl01gls01.md#gls-3dcompass). By default, Abaqus/CAE draws the [3D compass](gl01gls01.md#gls-3dcompass) so that the *X*–*Z* plane is the privileged plane. You can customize the appearance of the [3D compass](gl01gls01.md#gls-3dcompass) to change the privileged plane to any of the three major compass planes (*X*–*Y*, *Y*–*Z*, or *X*–*Z*).
For more information:- ["Customizing the 3D compass," Section 5.3.4 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#uss-viw-3dcompass-customize)

### probe

A mode in which Abaqus/CAE displays information as you move the cursor around the current viewport. Probing a model plot displays model data and analysis results; probing an *X–Y* plot displays *X–Y* curve data.
For more information:- [Chapter 51, "Probing the model," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usv-probe)

### procedure

The type of analysis to be performed during an analysis step. Static stress, dynamic stress, eigenvalue buckling, and transient heat transfer are examples of analysis procedures.

In Abaqus/CAE many tasks that you perform are broken into step-by-step procedures. When you perform one of these procedures, Abaqus/CAE displays instructions for each step at the appropriate time in the prompt area near the bottom of the main window. 
For more information:- ["Solving analysis problems: overview," Section 6.1.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-asolving)

- ["Using the prompt area during procedures," Section 3.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#uss-int-proc)

### profile

A definition of the engineering properties of a beam section that are related to its cross-sectional shape and size (for example, cross-section area and moments of inertia). When you define a beam section, you must include a reference to a profile in the section definition.
For more information:- ["Defining profiles," Section 12.2.2 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-prp-prop-profile)

A surface profile is the collection of line segments defining the cross-section of analytical rigid surfaces. 
For more information:- ["Analytical rigid surface definition," Section 2.3.4 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-arigidsurf)

Profile also refers to the distribution of a variable over space or time such as a temperature profile or a wind velocity profile.
For more information:- ["Uncoupled heat transfer analysis," Section 6.5.2 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-aheattransfer)

- ["Abaqus/Aqua analysis," Section 6.11.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-aaqua)

### prompt area

An area located at the bottom of the Abaqus/CAE main window that displays instructions for you to follow during a procedure.
For more information:- ["Using the prompt area during procedures," Section 3.1 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#uss-int-proc)

### Property module

An Abaqus/CAE module that allows you to define the material and section properties of a model by creating section definitions and assigning them to parts or to regions of parts. Most section definitions refer to material definitions, which you also create using the Property module.
For more information:- [Chapter 12, "The Property module," of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-prp)




