

## 3.1. General Description


The cuBLASLt library is a new lightweight library dedicated to GEneral Matrix-to-matrix Multiply (GEMM) operations with a new flexible API. This new library adds flexibility in matrix data layouts, input types, compute types, and also in choosing the algorithmic implementations and heuristics through parameter programmability.


Once a set of options for the intended GEMM operation are identified by the user, these options can be used repeatedly for different inputs. This is analogous to how cuFFT and FFTW first create a plan and reuse for same size and type FFTs with different input data.


> **Note**

Note
The cuBLASLt library does not guarantee the support of all possible sizes and configurations, however, since CUDA 12.2 update 2, the problem size limitations on m, n, and batch size have been largely resolved. The main focus of the library is to provide the most performant kernels, which might have some implied limitations. Some non-standard configurations may require a user to handle them manually, typically by decomposing the problem into smaller parts (see Problem Size Limitations).




####### 3.1.4. 窄精度数据类型用法
######## 3.1.4.1. FP8数据类型的张量级缩放
######## 3.1.4.2. 实验性：FP8数据类型的按批次张量级缩放
######## 3.1.4.3. FP8数据类型的外向量缩放
######## 3.1.4.4. FP8和FP4数据类型的16/32元素1D块缩放
######### 3.1.4.4.1. 1D块量化
######### 3.1.4.4.2. 1D块缩放因子布局
######## 3.1.4.5. FP8数据类型的128元素1D和128x128 2D块缩放
######### 3.1.4.5.1. 缩放因子布局
###### 3.1.4.5. 128-element 1D and 128x128 2D Block Scaling For FP8 Data Types
### 3.1.1. Problem Size Limitations


There are inherent problem size limitations that are a result of limitations in CUDA grid dimensions.  For example, many kernels do not support batch sizes greater than 65535 due to a limitation on the *z* dimension of a grid.  There are similar restriction on the m and n values for a given problem.


In cases where a problem cannot be run by a single kernel, cuBLASLt will attempt to decompose the problem into multiple sub-problems and solve it by running the kernel on each sub-problem.


**There are some restrictions on cuBLASLt internal problem decomposition which are summarized below:**
: Amax computations are not supported.  This means that CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_AMAX_D_POINTER and CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_AMAX_POINTER must be left unset (see cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t)
All matrix layouts must have CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_ORDER set to CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL (see cublasLtOrder_t)
cuBLASLt will not partition along the n dimension when CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE is set to CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU_BGRAD or CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU_BGRAD (see cublasLtEpilogue_t)



To overcome these limitations, a user may want to partition the problem themself, launch kernels for each sub-problem, and compute any necessary reductions to combine the results.





### 3.1.2. Heuristics Cache


cuBLASLt uses heuristics to pick the most suitable matmul kernel for execution based on the problem sizes, GPU configuration, and other parameters. This requires performing some computations on the host CPU, which could take tens of microseconds. To overcome this overhead, it is recommended to query the heuristics once using cublasLtMatmulAlgoGetHeuristic() and then reuse the result for subsequent computations using cublasLtMatmul().


For the cases where querying heuristics once and then reusing them is not feasible, cuBLASLt implements a heuristics cache that maps matmul problems to kernels previously selected by heuristics. The heuristics cache uses an LRU-like eviction policy and is thread-safe.


The user can control the heuristics cache capacity with the `CUBLASLT_HEURISTICS_CACHE_CAPACITY` environment variable or with the cublasLtHeuristicsCacheSetCapacity() function which has higher precedence. The capacity is measured in number of entries and might be rounded up to the nearest multiple of some factor for performance reasons. Each entry takes about 360 bytes but is subject to change. The default capacity is 8192 entries.


> **Note**

Note
Setting capacity to zero disables the cache completely. This can be useful for workloads that do not have a steady state and for which cache operations may have higher overhead than regular heuristics computations.


> **Note**

Note
The cache is not ideal for performance reasons, so it is sometimes necessary to increase its capacity 1.5x-2.x over the anticipated number of unique matmul problems to achieve a nearly perfect hit rate.


See also: cublasLtHeuristicsCacheGetCapacity(), cublasLtHeuristicsCacheSetCapacity().





### 3.1.3. cuBLASLt Logging


cuBLASLt logging mechanism can be enabled by setting the following environment variables before launching the target application:


- CUBLASLT_LOG_LEVEL=<level> where <level> is one of the following levels:



0 - Off - logging is disabled (default)
1 - Error - only errors will be logged
2 - Trace - API calls that launch CUDA kernels will log their parameters and important information
3 - Hints - hints that can potentially improve the application’s performance
4 - Info - provides general information about the library execution, may contain details about heuristic status
5 - API Trace - API calls will log their parameter and important information
- CUBLASLT_LOG_MASK=<mask>, where <mask> is a combination of the following flags:



0 - Off
1 - Error
2 - Trace
4 - Hints
8 - Info
16 - API Trace

For example, use CUBLASLT_LOG_MASK=5 to enable Error and Hints messages.
- CUBLASLT_LOG_FILE=<file_name>, where <file_name> is a path to a logging file.  The file name may contain %i, which will be replaced with the process ID. For example file_name_%i.log.


If `CUBLASLT_LOG_FILE` is not set, the log messages are printed to stdout.


Another option is to use the experimental cuBLASLt logging API. See:


cublasLtLoggerSetCallback(), cublasLtLoggerSetFile(), cublasLtLoggerOpenFile(), cublasLtLoggerSetLevel(), cublasLtLoggerSetMask(), cublasLtLoggerForceDisable()





### 3.1.4. Narrow Precision Data Types Usage


What we call here *narrow precision data types* were first introduced as 8-bit floating point data types (FP8) with Ada and Hopper GPUs (compute capability 8.9 and above), and were designed to further accelerate matrix multiplications. There are two types of FP8 available:


- CUDA_R_8F_E4M3 is designed to be accurate at a smaller dynamic range than half precision. The E4 and M3 indicate a 4-bit exponent and a 3-bit mantissa respectively. For more details, see __nv__fp8_e4m3.
- CUDA_R_8F_E5M2 is designed to be accurate at a similar dynamic range as half precision. The E5 and M2 indicate a 5-bit exponent and a 2-bit mantissa respectively. For more information see __nv__fp8_e5m2.


> **Note**

Note
Unless otherwise stated, FP8 refers to both CUDA_R_8F_E4M3 and CUDA_R_8F_E5M2.


With the Blackwell GPUs (compute capability 10.0 and above), cuBLAS adds support for 4-bit floating data type (FP4) `CUDA_R_4F_E2M1`. The E2 and M1 indicate a 2-bit exponent and a 1-bit mantissa respectively. For more details, see [__nv_fp4_e2m1](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-math-api/cuda_math_api/struct____nv__fp4__e2m1.html).


In order to maintain accuracy, data in narrow precisions needs to be scaled or dequantized before and potentially quantized after computations. cuBLAS provides several modes how the scaling factors are applied, defined in cublasLtMatmulMatrixScale_t and configured via the `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_{X}_SCALE_MODE` attributes (here `X` stands for `A`, `B`, `C`, `D`, `D_OUT`, or `EPILOGUE_AUX`; see cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t). The scaling modes overview is given in the next table, and more details are available in the subsequent sections.


| Mode | Supported compute capabilities | Tensor values data type | Scaling factors data type | Scaling factor layout |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Tensorwide scaling | 8.9+ | CUDA_R_8F_E4M3 / CUDA_R_8F_E5M2 | CUDA_R_32F 1 | Scalar |
| Outer vector scaling | 9.0 | CUDA_R_8F_E4M3 / CUDA_R_8F_E5M2 | CUDA_R_32F | Vector |
| 128-element 1D block scaling | 9.0 | CUDA_R_8F_E4M3 / CUDA_R_8F_E5M2 | CUDA_R_32F | Tensor |
| 128x128-element 2D block scaling | 9.0 | CUDA_R_8F_E4M3 / CUDA_R_8F_E5M2 | CUDA_R_32F | Tensor |
| 32-element 1D block scaling | 10.0+ | CUDA_R_8F_E4M3 / CUDA_R_8F_E5M2 | CUDA_R_8F_UE8M0 2 | Tiled tensor 4 |
| 16-element 1D block scaling | 10.0+ | CUDA_R_4F_E2M1 | CUDA_R_8F_UE4M3 3 | Tiled tensor 4 |
| Experimental: Per-batch Tensorwide scaling | 10.0+ | CUDA_R_8F_E4M3 / CUDA_R_8F_E5M2 | CUDA_R_32F 1 | Array of pointers |


**NOTES:**


**1(1,2)**
: Scaling factors that have CUDA_R_32F data type can be negative and are applied as-is without taking their absolute value first.

**2**
: CUDA_R_8F_UE8M0 is an 8-bit unsigned exponent-only floating data type. For more information see __nv_fp8_e8m0.

**3**
: CUDA_R_8F_UE4M3 is an unsigned version of CUDA_R_E4M3.  The sign bit is ignored, so this enumerant is provided for convenience.

**4(1,2)**
: See 1D Block Scaling Factors Layout for more details.



> **Note**

Note
Scales are only applicable to narrow precisions matmuls. If any scale is set for a non-narrow precisions matmul, cuBLAS will return an error. Furthermore, scales are generally only supported for narrow precision tensors. If the corresponding scale is set for a non-narrow precisions tensor, cuBLAS will return an error. The one exception is that the C tensor is allowed to have a scale for non-narrow data types with tensorwide scaling mode.


> **Note**

Note
Only Tensorwide scaling is supported when cublasLtBatchMode_t of any matrix is set to CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_POINTER_ARRAY.




#### 3.1.4.1. Tensorwide Scaling For FP8 Data Types


Tensorwide scaling is enabled when `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_{X}_SCALE_MODE` attributes (here `X` stands for `A`, `B`, `C`, `D`, or `EPILOGUE_AUX`; see cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t) for all FP8-precision tensors are set to `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_SCALAR_32F` (this is the default value for FP8 tensors). In such case, the matmul operation in cuBLAS is defined in the following way (assuming, for exposition, that all tensors are using an FP8 precision):



```

\[D = scale_D \cdot (\alpha \cdot scale_A \cdot scale_B \cdot \text{op}(A) \text{op}(B) + \beta \cdot scale_C \cdot C).\]
```


Here $A$, $B$, and $C$ are input tensors, and $scale_A$, $scale_B$, $scale_C$, $scale_D$, $\alpha$, and $\beta$ are input scalars. This differs from the other matrix multiplication routines because of this addition of scaling factors for each matrix. The $scale_A$, $scale_B$, and $scale_C$ are used for de-quantization, and $scale_D$ is used for quantization. Note that all the scaling factors are applied multiplicatively. This means that sometimes it is necessary to use a scaling factor or its reciprocal depending on the context in which it is applied. For more information on FP8, see cublasLtMatmul() and cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t.


For such matrix multiplications, epilogues and the absolute maximums of intermediate values are computed as follows:



```

\[\begin{split}Aux_{temp} & = \alpha \cdot scale_A \cdot scale_B \cdot \text{op}(A) \text{op}(B) + \beta \cdot scale_C \cdot C + bias, \\
D_{temp} & = \mathop{Epilogue}(Aux_{temp}), \\
amax_{D} & = \mathop{absmax}(D_{temp}), \\
amax_{Aux} & = \mathop{absmax}(Aux_{temp}), \\
D & = scale_D * D_{temp}, \\
Aux & = scale_{Aux} * Aux_{temp}. \\\end{split}\]
```


Here $Aux$ is an auxiliary output of matmul consisting of the values that are passed to an epilogue function like GELU, $scale_{Aux}$ is an optional scaling factor that can be applied to $Aux$, and $amax_{Aux}$ is the maximum absolute value in $Aux$ before scaling. For more information, see attributes `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_AMAX_D_POINTER` and `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_AMAX_POINTER` in cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t.


> **Note**

Note
As indicated in equation above, bias is applied before calculating \(Aux_{temp}\).





#### 3.1.4.2. Experimental: Per-batch Tensorwide Scaling For FP8 Data Types


Per-batch Tensorwide scaling is enabled when `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_{X}_SCALE_MODE` attributes (here `X` stands for `A`, `B`, `C`, `D`, or `EPILOGUE_AUX`; see cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t) for all FP8-precision tensors are set to `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_PER_BATCH_SCALAR_32F`.


Per-batch Tensorwide scaling is a variant of tensorwide scaling except that each matrix in the batch has its own scaling factor.


When using per-batch Tensorwide scaling, the $scale_A$, $scale_B$, $scale_C$, $scale_D$, and $scale_{Aux}$ must be device arrays of pointers of length `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT`.


> **Note**

Note
Per-batch Tensorwide scaling is only supported when cublasLtBatchMode_t of all matrices is set to CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_GROUPED.





#### 3.1.4.3. Outer Vector Scaling for FP8 Data Types


This scaling mode (also known as channelwise or rowwise scaling) is a refinement of the tensorwide scaling. Instead of multiplying a matrix by a single scalar, a scaling factor is associated with each row of $A$ and each column of $B$:



```

\[D_{ij} = \alpha \cdot scale_A^i \cdot scale_B^j \sum_{l=1}^k a_{il}\cdot b_{lj} + \beta \cdot scale_C \cdot C_{ij}.\]
```


Notably, $scale_D$ is not supported because the only supported precisions for $D$ are `CUDA_R_16F`, `CUDA_R_16BF`, and `CUDA_R_32F`.


To enable outer vector scaling, the `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_A_SCALE_MODE` and `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_B_SCALE_MODE` attributes, must be set to `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_OUTER_VEC_32F`, while all the other scaling modes must not be modified.


When using this scaling mode, the $scale_A$ and $scale_B$ must be vectors of length $M$ and $N$ respectively.





#### 3.1.4.4. 16/32-Element 1D Block Scaling for FP8 and FP4 Data Types


1D block scaling aims to overcome limitations of having a single scalar to scale a whole tensor. It is described in more details in the [OCP MXFP](https://www.opencompute.org/documents/ocp-microscaling-formats-mx-v1-0-spec-final-pdf) specification, so we give just a brief overview here. Block scaling means that elements within the same 16- or 32-element block of adjacent values are assigned a shared scaling factor.


Currently, block scaling is supported for FP8-precision and FP4-precision tensors and mixing precisions is not supported. To enable block scaling, the `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_{X}_SCALE_MODE` attributes (here `X` stands for `A`, `B`, `C`, `DOUT`, or `EPILOGUE_AUX`; see cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t) must be set to `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC32_UE8M0` for all FP8-precision tensors or to `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC16_UE4M3` for all FP4-precision tensors.


With block scaling, the matmul operation in cuBLAS is defined in the following way (assuming, for exposition, that all tensors are using a narrow precision). We loosely follow the OCP MXFP specification notation.


First, a scaled block (or an MX-compliant format vector in the OCP MXFP specification) is a tuple $x = \left(S^x, \left[x^i\right]_{i=1}^k\right)$, where $S^x$ is a shared scaling factor, and each $x^i$ is stored using an FP8 or FP4 data type.


A dot product of two scaled blocks $x = \left(S^x, \left[x^i\right]_{i=1}^{k}\right)$ and $y = \left(S^y, \left[y^i\right]_{i=1}^{k}\right)$ is defined as follows:



```

\[Dot(x, y) = S^x S^y \cdot \sum_{i=1}^{k} x^i y^i.\]
```


For a sequence of $n$ blocks $X = \{x_j\}_{j=1}^n$ and $Y = \{y_j\}_{j=1}^n$, the generalized dot product is defined as:



```

\[DotGeneral(X, Y) = \sum_{j=1}^n Dot(x_j, y_j).\]
```


The generalized dot product can be used to define the matrix multiplication by combining together one scaling factor per $k$ elements of $A$ and $B$ in the $K$ dimension (assuming, for simplicity, that $K$ is divisible by $k$ without a remainder):



```

\[\begin{split}L & = \frac{K}{k}, \\
A_i & = \left\{{scale_A}_{i,b}, \left[A_{i,(b-1)k+l}\right]_{l=1}^{k}\right\}_{b=1}^L, \\
B_j & = \left\{{scale_B}_{i,b}, \left[B_{(b-1)k+l,j}\right]_{l=1}^{k}\right\}_{b=1}^L, \\
(\left\{scale_A, A\right\} \times \left\{scale_B, B\right\})_{i,j} & = DotGeneral(A_i, B_j).\end{split}\]
```


Now, the full matmul can be written as:



```

\[\left\{scale_D^{out}, D\right\} = Quantize\left(scale_D^{in}\left(\alpha \cdot \left\{scale_A, \text{op}(A)\right\} \times \left\{scale_B, \text{op}(B)\right\} + \beta \cdot Dequantize(\left\{scale_C, C\right\})\right)\right).\]
```


The $Quantize$ is explained in the 1D Block Quantization section, and $Dequantize$ is defined as:



```

\[Dequantize\left(\left\{scale_C, C\right\})\right)_{i,j} = {scale_C}_{i/k,j} \cdot C_{i,j}.\]
```


> **Note**

Note
In addition to \(scale_D^{out}\) that is computed during quantization, there is also an input scalar tensor-wide scaling factor \(scale_D^{in}\) for \(D\) that is available only when scaling factors use the CUDA_R_8F_UE4M3 data type. It is used to ‘compress’ computed values prior to quantization.




3.1.4.4.1. 1D Block Quantization

Consider a single block of $k$ elements of $D$ in the $M$ dimension: $D^b_{fp32} = \left[d^i_{fp32}\right]_{i=1}^k$. Quantization of partial blocks is performed as if the missing values are zero. Let $Amax(DType)$ be the maximal value representable in the destination precision.


The following computations steps are common to all combinations of output and scaling factors data types.


1. Compute the block absolute maximum value \(Amax(D^b_{fp32}) = max(\{|d_i|\}_{i=1}^k)\).
2. Compute the block scaling factor in single precision as \(S^b_{fp32} = \frac{Amax(D^b_{fp32})}{Amax(DType)}\).


**Computing scaling and conversion factors for FP8 with UE8M0 scales**


> **Note**

Note
RNE rounding is assumed unless noted otherwise.


Computations consist of the following steps:


1. Extract the block scaling factor exponent without bias adjustment as an integer \(E^b_{int}\) and mantissa as a fixed point number \(M^b_{fixp}\) from \(S^b_{fp32}\) (the actual implementation operates on bit representation directly).
2. Round the block exponent up keeping it within the range of values representable in UE8M0: \(E^b_{int} = \left\{\begin{array}{ll} E^b_{int} + 1, & \text{if } S^b_{fp32} \text{ is a normal number and }  E^b_{int} < 254 \text{ and } M^b_{fixp} > 0 \\ E^b_{int} + 1, & \text{if } S^b_{fp32} \text{is a denormal number and } M^b_{fixp} > 0.5, \\ E^b_{int}, & \text{otherwise.} \end{array}\right.\)
3. Compute the block scaling factor as \(S^b_{ue8m0} = 2^{E^b_{int}}\). Note that UE8M0 data type has exponent bias of 127.
4. Compute the block conversion factor \(R^b_{fp32} = \frac{1}{fp32(S^b_{ue8m0})}\).


> **Note**

Note
The algorithm above differs from the OCP MXFP suggested rounding scheme.


**Computing scaling and conversion factors for FP4 with UE4M3 scales**


Here we assume that the algorithm is provided with a precomputed input tensorwide scaling factor $scale_D^{in}$ which in general case is computed as



```

\[scale_D^{in} = \frac{Amax(e2m1) \cdot Amax(e4m3)}{Amax(D_{temp})},\]
```


where $Amax(D_{temp})$ is a global absolute maximum of matmul results before quantization. Since computing this value requires knowing the result of the whole computation, an approximate value from e.g. the previous iteration is used in practice.


Computations consist of the following steps:


1. Compute the narrow precision value of the block scaling factor \(S^b_{e4m3} = e4m3(S^b_{fp32})\).
2. Compute the block conversion factor \(R^b_{fp32} = \frac{1}{fp32(S^b_{e4m3})}\).


**Applying conversion factors**


For each $i = 1 \ldots k$, compute $d^i = DType(d^i_{fp32} \cdot R^b_{fp32})$. The resulting quantized block is $\left(S^b, \left[d^i\right]_{i=1}^k\right)$, where $S^b$ is $S^b_{ue8m0}$ for FP8 with UE8M0 scaling factors, and $S^b_{ue4m3}$ for FP4 with UE4M3 scaling factors.





3.1.4.4.2. 1D Block Scaling Factors Layout

Scaling factors are stored using a tiled layout. The following figure shows how each 128x4 tile is laid out in memory. The offset in memory is increasing from left to right, and then from top to bottom.





The following pseudocode can be used to translate from `inner` (K for A and B, and M for C or D) and `outer` (M for A, and N for B, C and D) indices to linear `offset` within a tile and back:



```c++

// Indices -> offset
offset = (outer % 32) * 16 + (outer / 32) * 4 + inner

// Offset -> Indices
outer = ((offset % 16) / 4) * 32 + (offset / 16)
inner = (offset % 4)


```


A single tile of scaling factors is applied to a 128x64 block when the scaling mode is `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC16_UE4M3` and to a 128x128 block when it is `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC32_UE8M0`.


Multiple blocks are arranged in the row-major manner. The next picture shows an example. The offset in memory is increasing from left to right, and then from top to bottom.





In general, for a scaling factors tensor with `sf_inner_dim` scaling factors per row, offset of a block with top left coordinate `(sf_outer, sf_inner)` (using the same correspondence to matrix coordinates as noted above) can be computed using the following pseudocode:



```c++

// Indices -> offset
//   note that sf_inner is a multiple of 4 due to the tiling layout
offset = (sf_inner + sf_outer * sf_inner_dim) * 128


```


> **Note**

Note
Starting addresses of scaling factors must be 16B aligned.


> **Note**

Note
Note that the layout described above does not allow transposition. This means that even though the input tensors can be transposed, the layout of scaling factors does not change.


> **Note**

Note
Note that when tensor dimensions are not multiples of the tile size above, it is necessary to still allocate full tile for storage and fill out of bounds values with zeroes. Moreover, when writing output scaling factors, kernels may write additional zeroes, so it is best to not make any assuptions regarding the persistence of out of bounds values.






#### 3.1.4.5. 128-element 1D and 128x128 2D Block Scaling For FP8 Data Types


These two scaling modes apply principles of the scaling approach described 16/32-Element 1D Block Scaling for FP8 and FP4 Data Types to the Hopper GPU architecture. However, here the scaling data type is `CUDA_R_32F`, and different scaling modes can be used for $A$ and $B$, and the only supported precisions for $D$ are `CUDA_R_16F`, `CUDA_R_16BF`, and `CUDA_R_32F`.


To enable this scaling mode, the `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_{X}_SCALE_MODE` attributes (here `X` stands for `A` or `B`), must be set to `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC128_32F` or `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_BLK128x128_32F`, while all the other scaling modes must not be modified. The following table shows supported combinations:


| CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_A_SCALE_MODE | CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_B_SCALE_MODE | Supported? |
| --- | --- | --- |
| CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC128_32F | CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC128_32F | Yes |
| CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC128_32F | CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_BLK128x128_32F | Yes |
| CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_BLK128x128_32F | CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC128_32F | Yes |
| CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_BLK128x128_32F | CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_BLK128x128_32F | No |


Using the notation from the 16/32-Element 1D Block Scaling for FP8 and FP4 Data Types, we can define sequences of scaled blocks for the $i$-th row of $A$ in the following way:



```

\[\begin{split}L & = \lceil \frac{K}{128} \rceil, \\
A^{128}_i & = \left\{{scale_A}_{i,b}, \left[A_{i,(b-1)128+l}\right]_{l=1}^{128}\right\}_{b=1}^L, \text{(this is the 128-element 1D block scaling)} \\
\\
p & = \lceil \frac{i}{128} \rceil, \\
A^{128 \times 128}_i & = \left\{{scale_A}_{p,b}, \left[A_{i,(b-1)128+l}\right]_{l=1}^{128}\right\}_{b=1}^L. \text{(this is the 128x128-element 2D block scaling)} \\\end{split}\]
```


Definitions for $B$ are similar. The matmul is then defined as in 16/32-Element 1D Block Scaling for FP8 and FP4 Data Types with the notable difference that when using the 2D block scaling a single scaling factor is used for the whole 128x128 block of elements.




3.1.4.5.1. Scaling factors layouts

> **Note**

Note
Starting addresses of scaling factors must be 16B aligned.


> **Note**

Note
\(M\) and \(N\) must be multiples of 4.


Then for the `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC128_32F` scaling mode, the scaling factors are:


- \(M\)-major for \(A\) with shape \(M \times L\) (\(M\)-major means that elements along the \(M\) dimension are contiguous in memory),
- \(N\)-major for \(B\) with shape \(N \times L\).


For the `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_BLK128x128_32F` scaling mode, the scaling factors are $K$-major and the stride between the consecutive columns must be a multiple of 4. Let $L_4 = \lceil L \rceil_4$, where the $\lceil \cdot \rceil_4$ denotes rounding up to the nearest multiple of 4. Then


- for \(A\), the shape of the scaling factors is \(L_4 \times \lceil \frac{M}{128} \rceil\),
- for \(B\), the shape of the scaling factors is \(L_4 \times \lceil \frac{N}{128} \rceil\).







### 3.1.5. Disabling CPU Instructions


As mentioned in the Heuristics Cache section, cuBLASLt heuristics perform some compute-intensive operations on the host CPU.
To speed-up the operations, the implementation detects CPU capabilities and may use special instructions, such as Advanced Vector Extensions (AVX) on x86-64 CPUs.
However, in some rare cases this might be not desirable. For instance, using advanced instructions may result in CPU running at a lower frequency, which would affect performance of the other host code.


The user can optionally instruct the cuBLASLt library to not use some CPU instructions with the `CUBLASLT_DISABLE_CPU_INSTRUCTIONS_MASK` environment variable or with the cublasLtDisableCpuInstructionsSetMask() function which has higher precedence.
The default mask is 0, meaning that there are no restrictions.


Please check cublasLtDisableCpuInstructionsSetMask() for more information.





如"启发式缓存"部分所述，cuBLASLt 启发式算法在主机 CPU 上执行一些计算密集型操作。
为了加速这些操作，实现会检测 CPU 能力并可能使用特殊指令，例如 x86-64 CPU 上的高级矢量扩展 (AVX)。
然而，在某些极少数情况下，这可能并不可取。例如，使用高级指令可能导致 CPU 以更低的频率运行，从而影响其他主机代码的性能。

用户可以选择指示 cuBLASLt 库不使用某些 CPU 指令，可通过 `CUBLASLT_DISABLE_CPU_INSTRUCTIONS_MASK` 环境变量或 `cublasLtDisableCpuInstructionsSetMask()` 函数（后者具有更高优先级）来实现。
默认掩码为 0，意味着没有限制。

有关更多信息，请查阅 `cublasLtDisableCpuInstructionsSetMask()`。

1D 块缩放旨在克服使用单一标量来缩放整个张量的局限性。具体细节在 [OCP MXFP](https://www.opencompute.org/documents/ocp-microscaling-formats-mx-v1-0-spec-final-pdf) 规范中有更详细的描述，这里只做简要概述。块缩放意味着同一 16 或 32 元素块内的相邻元素被分配一个共享的缩放因子。

目前，块缩放支持 FP8 精度和 FP4 精度的张量，不支持混合精度。要启用块缩放，必须将 `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_{X}_SCALE_MODE` 属性（其中 `X` 代表 `A`、`B`、`C`、`DOUT` 或 `EPILOGUE_AUX`；参见 cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t）设置为 `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC32_UE8M0`（适用于所有 FP8 精度张量）或 `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC16_UE4M3`（适用于所有 FP4 精度张量）。

使用块缩放时，cuBLAS 中的矩阵乘法运算定义如下（为便于说明，假设所有张量都使用窄精度）。我们大致遵循 OCP MXFP 规范的符号表示。

首先，一个缩放块（或者说 OCP MXFP 规范中的 MX 兼容格式向量）是一个元组 $x = \left(S^x, \left[x^i\right]_{i=1}^k\right)$，其中 $S^x$ 是共享缩放因子，每个 $x^i$ 使用 FP8 或 FP4 数据类型存储。

两个缩放块 $x = \left(S^x, \left[x^i\right]_{i=1}^{k}\right)$ 和 $y = \left(S^y, \left[y^i\right]_{i=1}^{k}\right)$ 的点积定义如下：



```

\[Dot(x, y) = S^x S^y \cdot \sum_{i=1}^{k} x^i y^i.\]
```


对于 $n$ 个块的序列 $X = \{x_j\}_{j=1}^n$ 和 $Y = \{y_j\}_{j=1}^n$，广义点积定义为：



```

\[DotGeneral(X, Y) = \sum_{j=1}^n Dot(x_j, y_j).\]
```


广义点积可用于定义矩阵乘法，方法是将 $A$ 和 $B$ 在 $K$ 维度上每 $k$ 个元素组合一个缩放因子（为简单起见，假设 $K$ 能被 $k$ 整除）：



```

\[\begin{split}L & = \frac{K}{k}, \\
A_i & = \left\{{scale_A}_{i,b}, \left[A_{i,(b-1)k+l}\right]_{l=1}^{k}\right\}_{b=1}^L, \\
B_j & = \left\{{scale_B}_{i,b}, \left[B_{(b-1)k+l,j}\right]_{l=1}^{k}\right\}_{b=1}^L, \\
(\left\{scale_A, A\right\} \times \left\{scale_B, B\right\})_{i,j} & = DotGeneral(A_i, B_j).\end{split}\]
```


现在，完整的矩阵乘法可以写成：



```

\[\left\{scale_D^{out}, D\right\} = Quantize\left(scale_D^{in}\left(\alpha \cdot \left\{scale_A, \text{op}(A)\right\} \times \left\{scale_B, \text{op}(B)\right\} + \beta \cdot Dequantize(\left\{scale_C, C\right\})\right)\right).\]
```


$Quantize$ 在 1D 块量化一节中有解释，$Dequantize$ 定义为：



```

\[Dequantize\left(\left\{scale_C, C\right\})\right)_{i,j} = {scale_C}_{i/k,j} \cdot C_{i,j}.\]
```


> **注意**

注意
除了量化期间计算的 $scale_D^{out}$ 之外，还有一个输入的标量张量级缩放因子 $scale_D^{in}$，用于 $D$。该因子仅在使用 `CUDA_R_8F_UE4M3` 数据类型的缩放因子时可用。它用于在量化之前"压缩"计算值。




3.1.4.4.1. 1D 块量化

考虑 $M$ 维度上 $k$ 个元素的单个 $D$ 块：$D^b_{fp32} = \left[d^i_{fp32}\right]_{i=1}^k$。部分块的量化按缺失值为零来处理。设 $Amax(DType)$ 为目标精度可表示的最大值。

以下计算步骤适用于输出和缩放因子数据类型的所有组合。


1. 计算块的绝对最大值 \(Amax(D^b_{fp32}) = max(\{|d_i|\}_{i=1}^k)\)。
2. 以单精度计算块缩放因子 \(S^b_{fp32} = \frac{Amax(D^b_{fp32})}{Amax(DType)}\)。


**计算 FP8 与 UE8M0 缩放因子的缩放和转换因子**


> **注意**

注意
除非另有说明，否则假定使用 RNE（四舍五入到最近偶数）舍入。


计算包括以下步骤：


1. 从 $S^b_{fp32}$ 中提取块缩放因子指数（无偏置调整）作为整数 $E^b_{int}$，尾数作为定点数 $M^b_{fixp}$（实际实现直接操作位表示）。
2. 向上舍入块指数，保持其在 UE8M0 可表示值范围内：\(E^b_{int} = \left\{\begin{array}{ll} E^b_{int} + 1, & \text{if } S^b_{fp32} \text{ is a normal number and }  E^b_{int} < 254 \text{ and } M^b_{fixp} > 0 \\ E^b_{int} + 1, & \text{if } S^b_{fp32} \text{is a denormal number and } M^b_{fixp} > 0.5, \\ E^b_{int}, & \text{otherwise.} \end{array}\right.\)
3. 计算块缩放因子 \(S^b_{ue8m0} = 2^{E^b_{int}}\)。注意 UE8M0 数据类型的指数偏置为 127。
4. 计算块转换因子 \(R^b_{fp32} = \frac{1}{fp32(S^b_{ue8m0})}\)。


> **注意**

注意
上述算法与 OCP MXFP 建议的舍入方案不同。


**计算 FP4 与 UE4M3 缩放因子的缩放和转换因子**


这里我们假设算法提供了一个预计算的张量级输入缩放因子 $scale_D^{in}$，在一般情况下按下式计算



```

\[scale_D^{in} = \frac{Amax(e2m1) \cdot Amax(e4m3)}{Amax(D_{temp})},\]
```


其中 $Amax(D_{temp})$ 是量化前矩阵乘法结果的全局绝对最大值。由于计算此值需要知道整个计算的结果，在实践中通常使用上一次迭代的近似值。


计算包括以下步骤：


1. 计算块缩放因子的窄精度值 \(S^b_{e4m3} = e4m3(S^b_{fp32})\)。
2. 计算块转换因子 \(R^b_{fp32} = \frac{1}{fp32(S^b_{e4m3})}\)。


**应用转换因子**


对于每个 $i = 1 \ldots k$，计算 $d^i = DType(d^i_{fp32} \cdot R^b_{fp32})$。得到的量化块是 $\left(S^b, \left[d^i\right]_{i=1}^k\right)$，其中对于 FP8 与 UE8M0 缩放因子，$S^b$ 为 $S^b_{ue8m0}$；对于 FP4 与 UE4M3 缩放因子，$S^b$ 为 $S^b_{ue4m3}$。





3.1.4.4.2. 1D 块缩放因子布局

缩放因子使用平铺布局存储。下图显示了每个 128x4 瓦片在内存中的布局方式。内存中的偏移量从左到右递增，然后从上到下递增。





以下伪代码可用于将 `inner`（A 和 B 的 K，C 或 D 的 M）和 `outer`（A 的 M，B、C 和 D 的 N）索引转换为瓦片内的线性 `offset`，并反向转换：



```c++

// Indices -> offset
// 索引 -> 偏移量
offset = (outer % 32) * 16 + (outer / 32) * 4 + inner

// Offset -> Indices
// 偏移量 -> 索引
outer = ((offset % 16) / 4) * 32 + (offset / 16)
inner = (offset % 4)


```


当缩放模式为 `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC16_UE4M3` 时，单个缩放因子瓦片应用于 128x64 块；当为 `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC32_UE8M0` 时应用于 128x128 块。

多个块按行优先方式排列。下一张图片显示了一个示例。内存中的偏移量从左到右递增，然后从上到下递增。





一般来说，对于每个行有 `sf_inner_dim` 个缩放因子的缩放因子张量，左上角坐标为 `(sf_outer, sf_inner)` 的块的偏移量（使用与上述相同的矩阵坐标对应关系）可使用以下伪代码计算：



```c++

// Indices -> offset
//   note that sf_inner is a multiple of 4 due to the tiling layout
// 索引 -> 偏移量
//   注意，由于平铺布局，sf_inner 是 4 的倍数
offset = (sf_inner + sf_outer * sf_inner_dim) * 128


```


> **注意**

注意
缩放因子的起始地址必须 16 字节对齐。


> **注意**

注意
请注意，上述布局不允许转置。这意味着即使输入张量可以转置，缩放因子的布局也不会改变。


> **注意**

注意
请注意，当张量维度不是上述瓦片大小的倍数时，仍需分配完整的瓦片进行存储，并将超出边界的值填充为零。此外，在写入输出缩放因子时，内核可能会写入额外的零，因此最好不要对超出边界值的持久性做任何假设。

当所有 FP8 精度张量的 `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_{X}_SCALE_MODE` 属性（此处 `X` 代表 `A`、`B`、`C`、`D` 或 `EPILOGUE_AUX`；参见 cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t）设置为 `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_PER_BATCH_SCALAR_32F` 时，将启用每批次张量范围缩放。

每批次张量范围缩放是张量范围缩放的一种变体，只是批次中的每个矩阵都有其自己的缩放因子。

使用每批次张量范围缩放时，$scale_A$、$scale_B$、$scale_C$、$scale_D$ 和 $scale_{Aux}$ 必须是长度为 `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT` 的设备指针数组。

> **注意**
>
> 每批次张量范围缩放仅在所有矩阵的 cublasLtBatchMode_t 设置为 CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_GROUPED 时才受支持。

cuBLASLt 使用启发式算法根据问题规模、GPU 配置和其他参数选择最合适的矩阵乘法内核来执行。这需要在主机 CPU 上执行一些计算，可能需要几十微秒。为了克服这个开销，建议使用 `cublasLtMatmulAlgoGetHeuristic()` 查询一次启发式算法，然后复用该结果进行后续的 `cublasLtMatmul()` 计算。

对于无法一次性查询并复用启发式算法的情况，cuBLASLt 实现了一个启发式缓存，该缓存将矩阵乘法问题映射到之前由启发式算法选择过的内核。启发式缓存使用类 LRU（最近最少使用）驱逐策略，并且是线程安全的。

用户可以通过 `CUBLASLT_HEURISTICS_CACHE_CAPACITY` 环境变量或 `cublasLtHeuristicsCacheSetCapacity()` 函数来控制启发式缓存的容量，后者具有更高的优先级。容量以条目数量衡量，可能会因为性能原因向上取整到某个因子的倍数。每个条目大约占用 360 字节，但可能会有所变化。默认容量为 8192 条。

> **注意**

将容量设置为零会完全禁用缓存。这对于没有稳定状态的工作负载很有用，在这种情况下缓存操作的开销可能高于常规启发式计算。

> **注意**

出于性能原因，缓存并非最优的，因此有时需要将容量增加 1.5 倍到 2 倍以上，以达到预期的唯一矩阵乘法问题数量，从而获得接近完美的命中率。

另请参阅：`cublasLtHeuristicsCacheGetCapacity()`、`cublasLtHeuristicsCacheSetCapacity()`。

这种缩放模式（也称为逐通道或逐行缩放）是张量级缩放的改进。与使用单个标量乘以矩阵不同，缩放因子与$A$的每一行和$B$的每一列相关联：

```

\[D_{ij} = \alpha \cdot scale_A^i \cdot scale_B^j \sum_{l=1}^k a_{il}\cdot b_{lj} + \beta \cdot scale_C \cdot C_{ij}.\]
```

值得注意的是，$scale_D$不受支持，因为$D$唯一支持的精度是`CUDA_R_16F`、`CUDA_R_16BF`和`CUDA_R_32F`。

要启用外部向量缩放，必须将`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_A_SCALE_MODE`和`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_B_SCALE_MODE`属性设置为`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_OUTER_VEC_32F`，同时不得修改其他所有缩放模式。

使用此缩放模式时，$scale_A$和$scale_B$必须分别是长度为$M$和$N$的向量。

问题的规模存在固有限制，这是由 CUDA 网格维度的限制所导致的。例如，许多内核不支持大于 65535 的批量大小，这是因为网格 *z* 维度的限制。对于给定的问题，m 和 n 值也存在类似的限制。

在单个内核无法运行某个问题的场景下，cuBLASLt 将尝试将问题分解为多个子问题，并通过在每个子问题上运行内核来求解。

**cuBLASLt 内部问题分解存在一些限制，汇总如下：**
: 不支持 Amax 计算。这意味着必须保持 CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_AMAX_D_POINTER 和 CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_AMAX_POINTER 未设置（参见 cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t）
所有矩阵布局必须将 CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_ORDER 设置为 CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL（参见 cublasLtOrder_t）
当 CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE 设置为 CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU_BGRAD 或 CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU_BGRAD 时，cuBLASLt 不会沿 n 维度进行分区（参见 cublasLtEpilogue_t）

为了克服这些限制，用户可能希望自行对问题进行分区，为每个子问题启动内核，并计算必要的归约操作以合并结果。

> **注意**

注意
缩放因子的起始地址必须按16字节对齐。

> **注意**

注意
M 和 N 必须为4的倍数。

然后，对于 `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC128_32F` 缩放模式，缩放因子为：

- 对于 A，M-major，形状为 M × L（M-major 表示沿 M 维度的元素在内存中是连续的）
- 对于 B，N-major，形状为 N × L。

对于 `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_BLK128x128_32F` 缩放模式，缩放因子为 K-major，且连续列之间的步长必须为4的倍数。设 $L_4 = \lceil L \rceil_4$，其中 $\lceil \cdot \rceil_4$ 表示向上取整至4的倍数。然后

- 对于 A，缩放因子的形状为 $L_4 \times \lceil \frac{M}{128} \rceil$，
- 对于 B，缩放因子的形状为 $L_4 \times \lceil \frac{N}{128} \rceil$。

当所有FP8精度张量的 `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_{X}_SCALE_MODE` 属性（此处 `X` 代表 `A`、`B`、`C`、`D` 或 `EPILOGUE_AUX`；参见 cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t）设置为 `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_SCALAR_32F`（这是FP8张量的默认值）时，将启用逐张量缩放。在这种情况下，cuBLAS中的矩阵乘法运算定义如下（为便于说明，假设所有张量都使用FP8精度）：

```

\[D = scale_D \cdot (\alpha \cdot scale_A \cdot scale_B \cdot \text{op}(A) \text{op}(B) + \beta \cdot scale_C \cdot C).\]
```

此处 $A$、$B$ 和 $C$ 是输入张量，$scale_A$、$scale_B$、$scale_C$、$scale_D$、$\alpha$ 和 $\beta$ 是输入标量。这与其他矩阵乘法例程不同，因为增加了每个矩阵的缩放因子。$scale_A$、$scale_B$ 和 $scale_C$ 用于反量化，$scale_D$ 用于量化。请注意，所有缩放因子均以乘法方式应用。这意味着有时需要根据缩放因子应用的上下文使用该缩放因子或其倒数。有关FP8的更多信息，请参见 cublasLtMatmul() 和 cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t。

对于此类矩阵乘法，结尾程序和中间值绝对最大值按以下方式计算：

```

\[\begin{split}Aux_{temp} & = \alpha \cdot scale_A \cdot scale_B \cdot \text{op}(A) \text{op}(B) + \beta \cdot scale_C \cdot C + bias, \\
D_{temp} & = \mathop{Epilogue}(Aux_{temp}), \\
amax_{D} & = \mathop{absmax}(D_{temp}), \\
amax_{Aux} & = \mathop{absmax}(Aux_{temp}), \\
D & = scale_D * D_{temp}, \\
Aux & = scale_{Aux} * Aux_{temp}. \\\end{split}\]
```

此处 $Aux$ 是矩阵乘法的辅助输出，由传递给GELU等结尾函数的值组成，$scale_{Aux}$ 是可应用于 $Aux$ 的可选缩放因子，$amax_{Aux}$ 是缩放前 $Aux$ 中的最大绝对值。有关更多信息，请参见 cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t 中的 `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_AMAX_D_POINTER` 和 `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_AMAX_POINTER` 属性。

> **注意**

注意
如上方程式所示，偏置在计算 $Aux_{temp}$ 之前应用。