# *NFILL







### *NFILLFill in nodes in a region.

This option is used to generate nodes for a region of a mesh by filling in nodes between two bounds.

**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  Abaqus/CFD  Abaqus/CAE  

**Type: **Model data  

**Level: **Part,  Part instance  

**Abaqus/CAE: **Not applicable; nodes are generated when you mesh the model.

##### **Reference:**

- ["Node definition," Section 2.1.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-inode)

### **Optional parameters: **

BIAS

Include this parameter to bias the spacing of the nodes being generated toward one end of the line of nodes being generated. Set this parameter equal to the ratio of adjacent distances between nodes along each line of nodes generated, as the nodes go from the first bounding node set to the second. If the BIAS parameter is less than one, the nodes are concentrated toward the first bounding node set; if it is greater than one, the nodes are concentrated toward the second bounding set. The value of the parameter must be positive.

The BIAS and SINGULAR parameters are mutually exclusive.

NSET

Set this parameter equal to the name of the node set to which the nodes created by this operation (including the bounding nodes) will be assigned. Node sets generated by this option are always sorted node sets.

SINGULAR

This parameter applies only to Abaqus/Standard analyses.

Include this parameter for fracture mechanics calculations with second-order isoparametric elements to create a “quarter point” crack-tip element and bias the remaining elements. Set SINGULAR=1 or 2, depending on whether the first or the second bounding node set represents the crack tip.

The BIAS and SINGULAR parameters are mutually exclusive.

TWO STEP

This parameter is meaningful only if the BIAS parameter is used. When this parameter is included, the BIAS value is applied only at each second interval along the line; therefore, the midside nodes of second-order elements will be at the middle of the two adjacent intervals.

### **Data lines to fill in nodes between two bounds: **

**First line:**

Repeat this data line as often as necessary, one line per region to be filled by this option.




