# *PREPRINT







### *PREPRINTSelect printout for the analysis input file processor.

This option is used to select the printout that will be obtained from the analysis input file processor. 

**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  Abaqus/CAE  

**Type: **Model data  

**Level: **Model  

**Abaqus/CAE: **Job module

##### **Reference:**

- ["Output," Section 4.1.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-out-ooutput)

### **Optional parameters: **

CONTACT

This parameter applies only to Abaqus/Standard analyses.

Set CONTACT=YES to print detailed information about the contact constraints generated by the contact pair definition data. Set CONTACT=NO (default) to suppress this printout.

ECHO

Set ECHO=YES to print an echo of the input data. Set ECHO=NO (default) to suppress this printout.

HISTORY

Set HISTORY=YES to print history data. Set HISTORY=NO (default) to suppress this printout. 

MODEL

Set MODEL=YES to print model definition data. Set MODEL=NO (default) to suppress this printout. 

In Abaqus/Explicit, setting MODEL=YES automatically sets MASS PROPERTY=YES.

PARSUBSTITUTION

Set PARSUBSTITUTION=YES to print the modified version of the original input file that is free of input model parametrization. Set PARSUBSTITUTION=NO (default) to suppress this printout. 

PARVALUES

Set PARVALUES=YES to print a modified version of the original input file showing the parameters used for model parametrization and their values. Set PARVALUES=NO (default) to suppress this printout. 

MASS PROPERTY

This parameter applies only to Abaqus/Explicit analyses.

Set MASS PROPERTY=YES to print a mass property table, which includes the original mass, initial mass scaling, non-structural mass, center of mass, and rotary inertia of each user-defined element set. Set MASS PROPERTY=NO (default) to suppress this printout. 

If MODEL=YES, the mass property table will be printed, even if MASS PROPERTY= NO.

**There are no data lines associated with this option.**



