# 1. Introduction

Abaqus is a suite of powerful engineering simulation programs, based on the finite element method, that can solve problems ranging from relatively simple linear analyses to the most challenging nonlinear simulations. Abaqus contains an extensive library of elements that can model virtually any geometry. It has an equally extensive list of material models that can simulate the behavior of most typical engineering materials including metals, rubber, polymers, composites, reinforced concrete, crushable and resilient foams, and geotechnical materials such as soils and rock. Designed as a general-purpose simulation tool, Abaqus can be used to study more than just structural (stress/displacement) problems. It can simulate problems in such diverse areas as heat transfer, mass diffusion, thermal management of electrical components (coupled thermal-electrical analyses), acoustics, soil mechanics (coupled pore fluid-stress analyses), piezoelectric analysis, electromagnetic analysis, and fluid dynamics.

Abaqus offers a wide range of capabilities for simulation of linear and nonlinear applications. Problems with multiple components are modeled by associating the geometry defining each component with the appropriate material models and specifying component interactions. In a nonlinear analysis Abaqus automatically chooses appropriate load increments and convergence tolerances and continually adjusts them during the analysis to ensure that an accurate solution is obtained efficiently.
