# 2.4 What is a toolset?







When you enter most modules, a **Tools** menu appears in the main menu bar containing all of the toolsets relevant to that module. A toolset is a functional unit that allows you to perform a specific modeling task. 

In most cases the objects that you create with a toolset in one module are useful in other modules. For example, you can use the Set toolset to create sets in the Assembly module and then apply boundary conditions to those sets in the Load module. Most of the toolsets include manager menus and manager dialog boxes that allow you to edit, copy, rename, and delete the objects you create with the toolset. 

The following toolsets are available in Abaqus/CAE:
- The Amplitude toolset allows you to define arbitrary time or frequency variations of load, displacement, and other prescribed variables. For more information, see [Chapter 57, "The Amplitude toolset](pt06ch57.md)."
- The Analytical Field toolset allows you to create analytical fields that you can use to define spatially varying parameters for selected interactions and prescribed conditions. For more information, see [Chapter 58, "The Analytical Field toolset](pt06ch58.md)."
- The Attachment toolset allows you to create attachment points and lines that you can use to define point-based and discrete fasteners, connector points for a connector, and regions for a coupling definition, point mass, load, or boundary condition. For more information, see [Chapter 59, "The Attachment toolset](pt06ch59.md)."
- The CAD Connection toolset allows you to create a connection that you can use for associative import of parts into Abaqus/CAE from CATIA and third-party CAD systems. For more information, see [Chapter 60, "The CAD Connection toolset](pt06ch60.md)."
- The Color Code toolset allows you to customize the edge and fill color of individual elements. For more information, see [Chapter 77, "Color coding geometry and mesh elements](pt07ch77.md)."
- The Coordinate System toolset allows you to create local coordinate systems for use in postprocessing. For more information, see ["Creating coordinate systems during postprocessing," Section 42.8](pt05ch42s06.md).
- The Create Field Output toolset allows you to perform operations on the field output available in an output database. For more information, see ["Creating new field output," Section 42.7](pt05ch42s05.md).
- The Customize toolset allows you to control the appearance of Abaqus/CAE toolbars, to create customized toolbars, and to specify keyboard shortcuts for many Abaqus/CAE features. For more information, see [Chapter 61, "The Customize toolset](pt06ch61.md)."
- The Datum toolset allows you to create datum points, axes, planes, and coordinate systems for a variety of modeling tasks. For more information, see [Chapter 62, "The Datum toolset](pt06ch62.md)."
- The Discrete Field toolset allows you to create a spatially varying field where values are associated with nodes or elements. For more information, see [Chapter 63, "The Discrete Field toolset](pt06ch63.md)."
- The Display Group toolset allows you to selectively plot one or more model or output database items. For more information, see [Chapter 78, "Using display groups to display subsets of your model](pt07ch78.md)."
- The Edit Mesh toolset allows you to modify a mesh to improve mesh quality. For more information, see [Chapter 64, "The Edit Mesh toolset](pt06ch64.md)."
- The Feature Manipulation toolset allows you to modify and manage the existing features in your model. For more information, see [Chapter 65, "The Feature Manipulation toolset](pt06ch65.md)."
- The Filter toolset allows you to remove extraneous output data---noise---during the analysis of a model without a loss of resolution in the desired data range. For more information, see [Chapter 66, "The Filter toolset](pt06ch66.md)."
- The Free Body toolset allows you to create and customize free body cuts in the Visualization module of Abaqus/CAE. For more information, see [Chapter 67, "The Free Body toolset](pt06ch67.md)."
- The Geometry Edit toolset allows you to repair invalid and imprecise imported parts. For more information, see [Chapter 69, "The Geometry Edit toolset](pt06ch69.md)."
- The Partition toolset allows you to divide a part or assembly into regions. For more information, see [Chapter 70, "The Partition toolset](pt06ch70.md)."
- The Path toolset allows you to specify a path through your model along which you can obtain and view *X--Y* data. For more information, see [Chapter 48, "Viewing results along a path](pt05ch48.md)."
- The Query toolset allows you to obtain general information about your model and to probe model and *X--Y* plots for output data. For more information, see [Chapter 71, "The Query toolset](pt06ch71.md)."
- The Reference Point toolset allows you to create reference points associated with a part or assembly. For more information, see [Chapter 72, "The Reference Point toolset](pt06ch72.md)."
- The Set toolset and the Surface toolset allow you to define sets and surfaces from regions of a model. For more information, see [Chapter 73, "The Set and Surface toolsets](pt06ch73.md)."
- The Stream toolset allows you to display streamlines to investigate velocity or vorticity in a fluid flow analysis. For more information, see [Chapter 74, "The Stream toolset](pt06ch74.md)."
- The Virtual Topology toolset allows you to ignore details, such as very small faces and edges, when you are meshing a part or a part instance. For more information, see [Chapter 75, "The Virtual Topology toolset](pt06ch75.md)."
- The XY Data toolset allows you to create and operate on *X--Y* data objects. For more information, see [Chapter 47, "X--Y plotting](pt05ch47.md)."




