# 1.1 Overview of this guide







This guide is a complete reference to using Abaqus/CAE (including Abaqus/Viewer, a subset of Abaqus/CAE that contains only the Visualization module). In general, any references to the Visualization module throughout this guide apply equally to Abaqus/Viewer. 

The Abaqus/CAE user interface is very intuitive and allows you to begin working without a great deal of preparation. However, you may find it useful to read through the tutorials at the end of the [Getting Started with Abaqus: Interactive Edition](../gsa/gsa-link.md#gsa) guide before using the product for the first time. Only [Appendix D, "Viewing the Output from Your Analysis," of Getting Started with Abaqus: Interactive Edition](../gsa/gsa-link.md#gsa-chp-caevismod) applies if you are running Abaqus/Viewer. 

This guide is divided into the following parts:
- [Part I, "Interacting with Abaqus/CAE](pt01.md)," contains general information on the user interface
- [Part II, "Working with Abaqus/CAE model databases, models, and files](pt02.md)," contains information on the various files created by and used with Abaqus/CAE
- [Part III, "Creating and analyzing a model using the Abaqus/CAE modules](pt03.md)," discusses each of the Abaqus/CAE modules in detail, except the Visualization module
- [Part IV, "Modeling techniques](pt04.md)," discusses how to define special engineering features in an Abaqus/CAE model and discusses modeling techniques that span multiple Abaqus/CAE modules.
- [Part V, "Viewing results](pt05.md)," discusses the Visualization module (Abaqus/Viewer) in detail
- [Part VI, "Using toolsets](pt06.md)," contains information on the toolsets in all Abaqus/CAE modules except the Visualization module (discussed in [Part V, "Viewing results](pt05.md)")
- [Part VII, "Customizing model display](pt07.md)," contains customization information
- [Part VIII, "Using plug-ins](pt08.md)," discusses how you can use plug-ins and the Plug-in toolset to extend the capabilities of Abaqus/CAE.

[Appendix A, "Keyword support](ap01.md),” provides tables that you can use to determine which Abaqus/CAE module embodies the functionality of a particular Abaqus keyword, as well as whether a particular keyword is supported. [Appendix B, "Special element types](ap02.md),” lists element types used in Abaqus for model features that are not part of the mesh. [Appendix C, "Special graphical symbols](ap03.md),” explains how to interpret the special graphical symbols used by Abaqus/CAE. [Appendix D, "Element and output variable support](ap04.md),” lists the Abaqus output variables that are not supported by the Visualization module.


