# 3.4.5 Terms describing object status







Abaqus/CAE uses the following terms to describe the status of objects in particular steps:

**Created**

The object was created and becomes active in this step. The point in the step at which a prescribed condition becomes active depends on the amplitude variation associated with that step. For more information, see “Prescribed conditions”  in ["Defining an analysis," Section 6.1.2 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-aover).

**Computed**

The analysis products will compute the value of the object in this step.

**Modified**

The definition of the object has been modified in this step. The variation of a prescribed condition over the course of the step depends on the amplitude variation associated with that step.

**Propagated**

The object was created, modified, or computed in an earlier step of the analysis and continues to be active in this step.

**Inactive**

The object has been deactivated in this step or in a previous step. It will remain deactivated in all subsequent steps until you reactivate it. You cannot deactivate an object in the step in which it was created. The point in the step at which a prescribed condition becomes inactive depends on the amplitude variation associated with that step. For more information, see “Prescribed conditions”  in ["Defining an analysis," Section 6.1.2 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-aover).

You cannot deactivate predefined fields; an inactive status for a predefined field means that the field has been reset to the value specified in the initial step. The point in the step at which an object resumes its initial value depends on the amplitude variation associated with that step. For more information, see “Prescribed conditions”  in ["Defining an analysis," Section 6.1.2 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-aover).

**N/A**

The object does not have any effect on the calculations for this step. 

The following terms apply only in linear perturbation steps:

**Built into base state**

Any active object created in a preceding general analysis step will be part of the base state and cannot be changed during the linear perturbation step.

**Propagated from base state**

Objects created in a previous general step will be part of the base state for this procedure but can be modified or deactivated by the user. 

**Deactivated from base state**

Objects created in a previous general step are deactivated in this linear perturbation step. The deactivated state applies only to the linear perturbation step and does not propagate to the remaining steps.

For information on linear perturbation steps, see ["General and linear perturbation procedures," Section 6.1.3 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-alinearnonlinear).

The following term applies only in modal dynamics steps:

**Built into modes**

Boundary conditions that are active in a preceding frequency analysis step are used in the calculation of modes and will therefore be built into the modes for mode-based linear perturbation procedures and subspace dynamic procedures. During these mode-based and subspace dynamic procedures the boundary condition cannot be changed.

For information on modal dynamics steps, see ["Transient modal dynamic analysis," Section 6.3.7 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-amodaldynamic).


