# 3.4.11 Copying step-dependent objects using manager dialog boxes







You use the **Copy** button in manager dialog boxes to copy a step-dependent object such as a load, boundary condition, interaction, predefined field, output request, or adaptive mesh constraint. You can copy an object from any step to any other valid step.

**To copy a step-dependent object:**

1. Open the appropriate manager, as described in ["Managing objects using manager dialog boxes," Section 3.4.9](pt01ch03s04hlb01.md).
2. Select the object you want to copy by clicking in the corresponding table cell.
3. Click **Copy**. The corresponding **Copy *Object*** dialog box appears.
4. Enter a name for the new object.
5. Choose the destination step from the **Step** list. By default, the object is copied into the step in which it was created.
6. Click **OK**. The object is copied to the selected destination step.

If the destination step type is different from the type of step in which the object was originally created, Abaqus/CAE may need to modify the object to make it compatible with the new step. For example, if a load was created in a static (general) step and you copy it into a steady-state dynamics (linear perturbation) step, Abaqus/CAE will add an imaginary component to the load value. Conversely, if a load from a steady-state dynamics step is copied to a static step, the imaginary component will be removed.

In addition, when you copy an object to a step other than the step in which it was created, any modifications made to the original object in one of its propagated states will be ignored in the copy.

Abaqus/CAE prevents you from copying an object into a step type where the object type is invalid. Abaqus/CAE also prevents you from copying a suppressed object or copying to a suppressed step.



