# Interacting with Abaqus/CAE







## Part I: Interacting with Abaqus/CAE

This guide is the main reference document for Abaqus/CAE, including Abaqus/Viewer. 

**Abaqus/CAE**

Abaqus/CAE is a complete Abaqus environment that provides a simple, consistent interface for creating, submitting, monitoring, and evaluating results from Abaqus/Standard and Abaqus/Explicit simulations. Abaqus/CAE is divided into modules, where each module defines a logical aspect of the modeling process; for example, defining the geometry, defining material properties, and generating a mesh. As you move from module to module, you build the model from which Abaqus/CAE generates an input file that you submit to the Abaqus/Standard or Abaqus/Explicit analysis product. The analysis product performs the analysis, sends information to Abaqus/CAE to allow you to monitor the progress of the job, and generates an output database. Finally, you use the Visualization module of Abaqus/CAE (also licensed separately as Abaqus/Viewer) to read the output database and view the results of your analysis.

**Abaqus/Viewer**

Abaqus/Viewer provides graphical display of Abaqus finite element models and results. Abaqus/Viewer is incorporated into Abaqus/CAE as the Visualization module.

This part of the guide introduces you to the Abaqus/CAE working environment. The following topics are covered:
- [Chapter 1, "Using this guide](pt01ch01.md)"
- [Chapter 2, "The basics of interacting with Abaqus/CAE](pt01ch02.md)"
- [Chapter 3, "Understanding Abaqus/CAE windows, dialog boxes, and toolboxes](pt01ch03.md)"
- [Chapter 4, "Managing viewports on the canvas](pt01ch04.md)"
- [Chapter 5, "Manipulating the view and controlling perspective](pt01ch05.md)"
- [Chapter 6, "Selecting objects within the viewport](pt01ch06.md)"
- [Chapter 7, "Configuring graphics display options](pt01ch07.md)"
- [Chapter 8, "Printing viewports](pt01ch08.md)"




