# 15 The Interaction module







You can use the Interaction module to define and manage the following objects:
- Mechanical and thermal interactions between regions of a model or between a region of a model and its surroundings.
- The interface region and coupling schemes for an Abaqus/Standard to Abaqus/Explicit co-simulation.
- The interface region and coupling step period for a fluid-structure co-simulation (between Abaqus/CFD and Abaqus/Standard or Abaqus/Explicit).
- Analysis constraints between regions of a model.
- Assembly-level wire features, connector sections, and connector section assignments to model connectors.
- Inertia (point mass, rotary inertia, and heat capacitance) on regions of the model.
- Cracks on regions of the model.
- Springs and dashpots between two points of a model or between a point of a model and ground.

 This chapter covers the following topics:- ["Understanding the role of the Interaction module," Section 15.1](pt03ch15s01.md)
- ["Entering and exiting the Interaction module," Section 15.2](pt03ch15s02.md)
- ["Understanding interactions," Section 15.3](pt03ch15s03.md)
- ["Understanding interaction properties," Section 15.4](pt03ch15s04.md)
- ["Understanding constraints," Section 15.5](pt03ch15s05.md)
- ["Understanding contact and constraint detection," Section 15.6](pt03ch15s06.md)
- ["Understanding connectors," Section 15.7](pt03ch15s07.md)
- ["Understanding connector sections and functions," Section 15.8](pt03ch15s08.md)
- ["Understanding Interaction module managers and editors," Section 15.9](pt03ch15s09.md)
- ["Understanding symbols that represent interactions, constraints, and connectors," Section 15.10](pt03ch15s10.md)
- ["Using the Interaction module toolbox," Section 15.11](pt03ch15s11.md)
- ["Using the Interaction module," Section 15.12](pt03ch15s12.md)
- ["Using the interaction editors," Section 15.13](pt03ch15s13.md)
- ["Using the interaction property editors," Section 15.14](pt03ch15s14.md)
- ["Using the constraint editors," Section 15.15](pt03ch15s15.md)
- ["Using contact and constraint detection," Section 15.16](pt03ch15s16.md)
- ["Using the connector section editors," Section 15.17](pt03ch15s17.md)
- ["Using the Query toolset to obtain connector assignment information," Section 15.18](pt03ch15hla01.md)




