# 15.8.3 What types of friction models are available?







You can model predefined or user-defined friction behavior. In general, for predefined friction you specify a set of geometric quantities that are characteristic of the connection type for which friction is modeled. In addition, you can define internal contact force contributions, such as prestress from the connection. Abaqus automatically defines the contact force contributions and the local tangent directions along which friction occurs.

You can model predefined friction for the following connection types: 

**Assembled/Complex types**

- Cylindrical (Slot + Revolute)
- Hinge (Join + Revolute)
- Planar (Slide-Plane + Revolute)
- Slip Ring (complex)
- Translator (Slot + Align)
- U Joint (Join + Universal)

**Basic types**

- Slide-Plane
- Slot

Predefined friction is also available if you define a combined translational and rotational connection type that is equivalent to one of these assembled types. You can define only one friction behavior for a given connection type if you are modeling predefined friction. 

If a predefined friction model is not available or does not adequately describe the mechanism being analyzed, you can specify a user-defined friction model (except in the case of the **Slip Ring** connection type, which does not allow a user-defined friction model). You must specify slip direction information, the friction-producing normal force or normal moment, and the friction law. You may use several connector friction behaviors to represent the frictional effects in the connector.

For detailed instructions on defining friction, see ["Defining friction," Section 15.17.3](pt03ch15s17hlb03.md). For more information, see ["Connector friction behavior," Section 31.2.5 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-elm-econnfrictionbehav).



