# 17.13.2 Which mesh controls can I use with adaptive remeshing?







[Table 17--3](pt03ch17s13s02.md#usi-mgn-conc-adaptivity-controlstable) shows the mesh controls that must be assigned to a region that will use adaptive remeshing. 

**Table 17–3** Mesh controls and adaptive remeshing.
| Dimensionality | Element Shape | Algorithm | Technique |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Two-dimensional | Triangular | n/a | Free |
| Two-dimensional | Quad-dominated | Advancing front | Free |
| Three-dimensional | Tetrahedral | n/a | Free |

In addition, you must assign the above supported mesh controls to any face or cell that is adjacent to a region that is included in a remeshing rule.

When Abaqus/CAE generates a tetrahedral mesh, it first creates a boundary mesh of triangles on the exterior faces of the solid region and then generates the tetrahedral mesh using the triangles as faces of the exterior tetrahedral elements. When you assign adaptive remeshing to a solid region, Abaqus/CAE applies adaptive remeshing to the boundary mesh of triangles on the exterior faces. For more information, see ["Free meshing with triangular and tetrahedral elements," Section 17.10.3](pt03ch17s10s03.md).

If Abaqus/CAE is using the mapped meshing technique in a region you have selected for adaptive remeshing, the mesh resizing algorithm may be slow to converge and require more remeshing iterations to achieve a given target error.  To prevent Abaqus/CAE from using mapped meshing, you can toggle off **Use mapped meshing where appropriate** in the **Mesh Controls** dialog box. For more information, see ["Setting the mesh algorithm," Section 17.18.5](pt03ch17s18s05.md).



