# 11.7.3 What is the difference between a rigid part and a rigid body constraint?







You can create a rigid part in the Part module by creating a part and declaring its type to be discrete or analytical rigid. You can create a reference point and assign it to the rigid body reference point. Motion or constraints that you apply to the reference point are then applied to the entire rigid part.

Similarly, you can create a rigid body constraint in the Interaction module. Rigid body constraints allow you to constrain the motion of regions of the assembly to the motion of a reference point. The relative positions of the regions that are part of the rigid body remain constant throughout the analysis. In addition, you can select regions from a part instance and use a rigid body constraint to specify an isothermal rigid body for a fully coupled thermal-stress analysis. For detailed instructions on defining rigid body constraints and assigning a rigid body reference point, see ["Defining rigid body constraints," Section 15.15.2](pt03ch15s15hlb02.md).

You do not have to create a reference point for a part, even if the part type is discrete or analytical rigid. However, if you do not create a reference point for a rigid part, every instance of the part in the assembly must be included in a rigid body constraint.

Rigid parts are associated with parts; rigid body constraints are associated with regions of the assembly. For example, if you define a part to be rigid, every instance of the part in the assembly is rigid. In contrast, if you define a part to be deformable, you can use rigid body constraints to make only some of the instances rigid. If you do not create a reference point in the Part module, you cannot create a rigid body reference point by associating an instance of the rigid part with a reference point created in the Assembly module. However, you can associate the instance with a rigid body constraint and a reference point created in the Assembly module.

If you define a part to be rigid, you can use the Model Tree to change the part type to be deformable. To check that your basic model is correct, you might run a quick analysis with a part defined as rigid and then change the type to deformable. Similarly, if you define a part to be deformable and apply a rigid body constraint to an instance of the part in the assembly, you can easily remove the constraint at a later time. You can run your quick analysis with a rigid body constraint applied to the part instance and then remove the constraint and run a full analysis with the part instance acting as a deformable body. The two approaches are very similar.



