# 19.6.3 Rules governing a restart analysis







Defining the restart information for models and jobs is straightforward using Abaqus/CAE; however, you should understand the following before you use the analysis restart capability:
- The model used in the restart analysis must be the same as the model used in the original analysis up to the restart location. Specifically, - For the new model do not modify or add any geometry, mesh, materials, sections, beam section profiles, material orientations, beam section orientations, interaction properties, or constraints. - Similarly, do not modify any steps or prescribed conditions (loads, boundary conditions, fields, interactions, or output requests) at or before the restart location.
- If you used the keyword editor to edit the original model, Abaqus/CAE ignores those changes when you restart the analysis.

**Warning:**Abaqus/CAE does not perform any checks to ensure that the restart data stored for the original job are consistent with the model used in the restart analysis. In some cases the analysis will terminate with error messages. In other cases the analysis will run, but the results may not correspond with your intent. A specific example of a case that will result in an error message is one where you define a coupling constraint and its accompanying reference node in the original model and then suppress the constraint prior to the original analysis submission. In this example Abaqus/CAE maintains the reference node definition but Abaqus/Standard or Abaqus/Explicit may remove it from the model definition if it is not attached to other elements or constraints. Your subsequent Abaqus/CAE restart analysis in this example will be seen as inconsistent with the original analysis. In many cases like this example you can manually modify the restart analysis input file to correct the discrepancy.




