# 14.4.2 What is the difference between field output and history output?







When you create an output request, you can choose either field output or history output. 

**Field output**

Abaqus generates field output from data that are spatially distributed over the entire model or over a portion of it. In most cases you use the Visualization module to view field output data using deformed shape, contour, or symbol plots. The amount of field output generated by Abaqus during an analysis is often large. As a result, you typically request that Abaqus write field data to the output database at a low rate; for example, after every step or at the end of the analysis. 

When you create a field output request, you can specify the output frequency in equally spaced time intervals or every time a particular length of time elapses. For an Abaqus/Standard analysis procedure, you can alternatively specify the output frequency in increments, request output after the last increment of each step, or request output according to a set of time points. For an Abaqus/Explicit analysis procedure, you can alternatively request field output for every time increment or according to a set of time points. For an Abaqus/CFD analysis procedure, you can alternatively specify the output frequency in increments.

When you create a field output request, Abaqus writes every component of the selected variables to the output database. For example, if you were using solid elements to model a cantilever beam with a load at the tip, you could request the stress (all six components) and the displacement (all six components) data from the entire model after the last increment of the loading step. You could then use the Visualization module to view a contour plot of stresses and deflections in the final loaded state.

**History output**

Abaqus generates history output from data at specific points in a model. In most cases you use the Visualization module to display history output using *X–Y* plots. The rate of output depends on how you want to use the data that are generated by the analysis, and the rate can be very high. For example, data generated for diagnostic purposes may be written to the output database after every increment. You can also use history output for data that relate to the model or a portion of the model as a whole; for example, whole model energies.

When you create a history output request, you can specify the output frequency in equally spaced time intervals or every time a particular length of time elapses. For an Abaqus/Standard analysis procedure, you can alternatively specify the output frequency in increments, request output after the last increment of each step, or request output according to a set of time points. For an Abaqus/Explicit analysis procedure, you can alternatively request history output in time increments. For an Abaqus/CFD analysis procedure, you can alternatively specify the output frequency in increments.

When you create a history output request, you can specify the individual components of the variables that Abaqus/CAE will write to the output database. For example, if you model the response of a cantilever beam with a load applied to the tip, you might request the following output after each increment of the loading step:
- The principal stress at a single node at the root of the beam.
- The vertical displacement at a single node at the tip of the beam.

You could then use the Visualization module to view an *X–Y* plot of stress at the root versus displacement at the tip with increasing load. 




