# 14.4.3 Propagation of output requests







When you create the first step in the analysis, Abaqus/CAE generates default field and history output requests based on the analysis procedure that you selected for the step. These default output requests are propagated to subsequent steps. The **Field Output Requests Manager** and the **History Output Requests Manager** are step-dependent managers that display the propagation and the status of output requests between steps.

The output requested in a general step is independent of the output requested in a linear perturbation step. In addition, the propagation behavior of output requests varies between general steps and linear perturbation steps.

**General steps**

Abaqus/CAE creates a default field output request for the first general step in your model, and that default output request propagates to all subsequent general steps. Similarly, if you create a new output request or modify the default output request, the new or modified request is propagated to subsequent general steps. 

If you insert a new general step into the sequence of steps, the output request from the previous general step propagates to the new step. 

**Linear perturbation steps**

Abaqus/CAE creates a default field output request for the first linear perturbation step in your model, and that default output request propagates to all subsequent linear perturbation steps that use the same analysis procedure; for example, all the frequency analyses. Similarly, if you create a new output request or modify the default output request, the new or modified request is propagated to subsequent steps that use the same analysis procedure. 

If you insert a new linear perturbation step into the sequence of steps, the output request from the previous linear perturbation step that uses the same analysis procedure propagates to the new step. If you create a linear perturbation step that uses a different analysis procedure, Abaqus/CAE creates a new default output request. The new default output request propagates to all subsequent linear perturbation steps that use the same analysis procedure.

You should be aware of the following behavior:- If you insert a new general step at the beginning of a sequence of existing general steps, Abaqus/CAE does not create a default output request for the new step. Similarly, if you insert a new linear perturbation step at the beginning of a sequence of existing linear perturbation steps of the same procedure type, Abaqus/CAE does not create a default output request for the new step. In both cases you must create a new output request for the new step. Alternatively, you can use the output request managers to move the output request from the following step to the new step.
- If you delete a step (general or linear perturbation) that contains a new output request, Abaqus/CAE deletes the output request from all subsequent steps into which the request had propagated.
- If a step does not contain an output request, Abaqus/CAE displays a warning in the Job module when the input file is generated.




