# 12.17.3 Processing calibration data







The calibration data processing options enable you to clean up your material data before using it to define material behaviors. The following options are available:
- Convert
- Scale
- Smooth
- Truncate and Shift

### Converting calibration data between nominal and true forms

The **Convert** option enables you to convert the data in a calibration data set from nominal form to true form or vice versa. Abaqus/CAE performs the conversion using the algorithms described in ["Stress and strain measures" in "Inelastic behavior," Section 23.1.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-mat-cplastic-stressstrain).

**To convert calibration data between nominal and true forms:**

1. In the Model Tree, click mouse button 3 on the data set that you want to convert and select **Process** from the menu that appears. The **Data Set Processing** dialog box appears.
2. Select **Convert**, and click **Continue**. The **Change Data Set Form** dialog box appears.
3. Select the form to which you want to convert the selected data set. Options are **Nominal (Engineering) Form** and **True Form**.
4. If desired, you can retain the original data set and create a new data set when you perform the data conversion. You can also customize the name of the newly created data set.
5. Click **OK**. Abaqus/CAE performs the selected form conversion for the data.

### Scaling calibration data

The **Scale** option enables you to apply different scaling factors to either column in a calibration data set.

**To scale calibration data:**

1. In the Model Tree, click mouse button 3 on the data set that you want to convert and select **Process** from the menu that appears. The **Data Set Processing** dialog box appears.
2. Select **Scale**, and click **Continue**. The **Scale Data Set** dialog box appears.
3. Specify a scaling factor for either column in the data set by editing the values in the **Col 1** or **Col 2** fields.
4. If desired, click **Preview** to review the new data values created by the scaling factor values. Abaqus/CAE reflects the new scale factor for each column in the data set.
5. If desired, you can retain the original data set and create a new data set when you perform the data conversion. You can also customize the name of the newly created data set.
6. Click **OK**. Abaqus/CAE performs the selected scaling for the data.

### Smoothing calibration data

The **Smooth** option enables you to operate on a calibration data set to produce data that has a smoother curve. The resulting data set has the same *X*-coordinate values as the original data set. Abaqus/CAE uses an exponential moving average algorithm to smooth the data; this algorithm is also used by the **smooth2** *X–Y* operator. For more information, see ["Smoothing an X--Y data object," Section 47.4.31](pt05ch47s03hlb29.md). 

**To smooth calibration data:**

1. In the Model Tree, click mouse button 3 on the data set that you want to convert and select **Process** from the menu that appears. The **Data Set Processing** dialog box appears.
2. Select **Smooth**, and click **Continue**. The **Smooth Data Set** dialog box appears.
3. In the **Weight** field, specify a value for the smoothing parameter. You can specify a smoothing factor between 0 and 1 for the curve; a smaller value produces a smoother curve. The default smoothing factor is 0.75.
4. If desired, you can retain the original data set and create a new data set when you perform the data conversion. You can also customize the name of the newly created data set.
5. Click **OK**. Abaqus/CAE smooths the data set.

### Truncating and shifting calibration data

The **Truncate and Shift** option enables you to exclude data points from a calibration data set whose *X*-coordinate values are less than or greater than a user-specified value or to include data points that lie between two specified *X*-coordinate values.

**To truncate and shift calibration data:**

1. In the Model Tree, click mouse button 3 on the data set that you want to convert, and select **Process** from the menu that appears. The **Data Set Processing** dialog box appears.
2. Select **Truncate and Shift**, and click **Continue**. The **Truncate Data Set** dialog box appears.
3. Specify a truncation point on the left side or the right side of the data set, or specify points on both sides of the data set. You can set a truncation point by dragging a slider in the viewport or by entering a value in the appropriate **X-axis** field.
4. Shift the selected subset of data points using either of the following techniques: - Toggle on **Offset first point to (0,0)** to shift the selected subset of data points so that its leftmost point resides at (0,0). - Shift the selected subset of data points along either axis by specifying values in the **Offset X-axis** or **Offset Y-axis** fields.
5. If desired, you can retain the original data set and create a new data set when you perform the data conversion. You can also customize the name of the newly created data set.
6. Click **OK**. Abaqus/CAE performs the specified truncation or shift.




