# 12 The Property module







You can use the Property module to perform the following tasks:
- Define materials.
- Define beam section profiles.
- Define sections.
- Assign sections, orientations, normals, and tangents to parts.
- Define composite layups.
- Define a skin reinforcement.
- Define inertia (point mass, rotary inertia, and heat capacitance) on a part.
- Define springs and dashpots between two points or between a point and ground.
- Define material calibrations.

This chapter covers the following topics:- ["Entering and exiting the Property module," Section 12.1](pt03ch12s01.md)
- ["Understanding properties," Section 12.2](pt03ch12s02.md)
- ["Which properties can I assign to a part?," Section 12.3](pt03ch12s03.md)
- ["Understanding the Property module editors," Section 12.4](pt03ch12s04.md)
- ["Using material libraries," Section 12.5](pt03ch12s05.md)
- ["Using the Property module toolbox," Section 12.6](pt03ch12s06.md)
- ["Creating and editing materials," Section 12.7](pt03ch12s07.md)
- ["Defining general material data," Section 12.8](pt03ch12s08.md)
- ["Defining mechanical material models," Section 12.9](pt03ch12s09.md)
- ["Defining thermal material models," Section 12.10](pt03ch12s10.md)
- ["Defining electrical and magnetic material models," Section 12.11](pt03ch12s11.md)
- ["Defining other types of material models," Section 12.12](pt03ch12s12.md)
- ["Creating and editing sections," Section 12.13](pt03ch12s13.md)
- ["Creating and editing composite layups," Section 12.14](pt03ch12s14.md)
- ["Assigning sections, orientations, normals, and tangents to a part," Section 12.15](pt03ch12s15.md)
- ["Using discrete orientations for material orientations and composite layup orientations," Section 12.16](pt03ch12hla01.md)
- ["Creating material calibrations," Section 12.17](pt03ch12s16.md)
- ["Using the Special menu in the Property module," Section 12.18](pt03ch12hla02.md)
- ["Using the Query toolset to obtain assignment information," Section 12.19](pt03ch12hla03.md)

For information on defining inertia, see [Chapter 33, "Inertia](pt04ch33.md).” For information on defining skin reinforcements, see [Chapter 36, "Skin and stringer reinforcements](pt04ch36.md).” For information on defining springs and dashpots, see [Chapter 37, "Springs and dashpots](pt04ch37.md).” 


