# 19.6.8 Visualizing results from restart analyses







Each restart analysis creates a new output database. Consider the example described in ["Restarting after adding more analysis steps to the model," Section 19.6.5](pt03ch19s06s05.md), where you did the following:
- Ran an analysis of `Job-A` that referred to `Model-A` that contains `Step-1` and `Step-2`. As a result, the output database generated by the analysis, `Job-A.odb`, contains results from `Step-1` and `Step-2`.
- Ran a restart analysis of `Job-A-restart` that referred to `Model-A-restart`. Although `Model-A-restart` contains `Step-1`, `Step-2`, and `Step-3`, the output database generated by the restart analysis, `Job-A-restart.odb`, contains results from only `Step-3`.

You can use the Visualization module to create deformed, contour, and symbol plots of field data; however, you can plot the results from only one output database at any time. You must change the output database if you are looking at the results from `Step-1` or `Step-2` and want to look at the results from `Step-3`. 

If you want to create an animation of results from all three steps, you must combine the two output databases. Abaqus provides an execution procedure for this purpose. For more information, see ["Joining output database (`.odb`) files from restarted analyses," Section 3.2.21 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-drestartjoinproc).

Alternatively, you can create a history plot of a variable over all three steps using the following technique:
- Create one *X--Y* data object for the variable from the original output database---`Job-A.odb`.
- Create a second *X--Y* data object from the output database generated by the restart analysis---`Job-A-restart.odb`.
- Create an *X--Y* plot of the two *X--Y* data objects. Alternatively, you can create a new *X--Y* data object using the **Operate on XY data** option, append the first two *X--Y* data objects, and create an *X--Y* plot of the result.

For more information, see [Chapter 47, "X--Y plotting](pt05ch47.md).”

You should take care that your *X–Y* data objects are not referring to the same step. For example, consider the restart analysis described in ["Restarting after modifying existing analysis steps," Section 19.6.6](pt03ch19s06s06.md), where you modified an existing step and added a new step before continuing the analysis. The first output database contains data from `Step-1` and `Step-2`. The second output database contains data from a modified `Step-2` and the new `Step-3`. The first *X–Y* data object that you create should use only the data from `Step-1` and should exclude the data from the original `Step-2`. The second *X–Y* data object should use the data from the modified `Step-2` and the new `Step-3`.



