# 15.4 Understanding interaction properties







You can define a set of data that is referred to by an interaction but is independent of the interaction; for example, the coefficients that define friction during contact. This set of data is called an interaction property. One interaction property can be referred to by many different interactions.

You can create the following types of interaction properties:

**Contact**

A contact interaction property can define tangential behavior (friction and elastic slip) and normal behavior (hard, soft, or damped contact and separation). In addition, a contact property can contain information about damping, thermal conductance, thermal radiation, and heat generation due to friction. A contact interaction property can be referred to by a general contact, surface-to-surface contact, or self-contact interaction. For detailed instructions on defining this type of interaction property, see ["Defining a contact interaction property," Section 15.14.1](pt03ch15s14s01.md).

**Film condition**

A film condition interaction property defines a film coefficient as a function of temperature and field variables. A film condition interaction property can be referred to only by a film condition interaction. For detailed instructions on defining this type of interaction property, see ["Defining a film condition interaction property," Section 15.14.2](pt03ch15s14hlb01.md).

**Cavity radiation**

A cavity radiation interaction property defines emissivity for a cavity as a function of temperature and field variables. A cavity radiation interaction property can be referred to only by a cavity radiation interaction. For detailed instructions on defining this type of interaction property, see ["Defining a cavity radiation interaction property," Section 15.14.3](pt03ch15s14hlb02.md).

**Fluid cavity**

A fluid cavity interaction property defines the type of fluid occupying the cavity and the fluid properties. You can choose either a hydraulic fluid or a pneumatic fluid. Hydraulic fluids must include a fluid density; and they may include a fluid bulk modulus, thermal expansion coefficients, and other temperature-dependent data. Pneumatic fluids must include an ideal gas molecular weight, and they may include a molar heat capacity (Abaqus/Explicit only). For detailed instructions on defining this type of interaction property, see ["Defining a fluid cavity interaction property," Section 15.14.4](pt03ch15s14s02.md).

**Fluid exchange**

A fluid exchange interaction property defines the fluid flow between a cavity and the environment or from one cavity to another. You can define a fluid exchange based on bulk viscosity, mass flux, mass rate leakage, volume flux, or volume rate leakage. For detailed instructions on defining this type of interaction property, see ["Defining a fluid exchange interaction property," Section 15.14.5](pt03ch15s14hlb03.md).

**Acoustic impedance**

An acoustic impedance interaction property defines surface impedance or the proportionality factors between the pressure and the normal components of surface displacement and velocity in an acoustic analysis. An acoustic impedance interaction property can be referred to only by an acoustic impedance interaction. For detailed instructions on defining this type of interaction property, see ["Defining an acoustic impedance interaction property," Section 15.14.6](pt03ch15s14hlb04.md).

**Incident wave**

An incident wave interaction property defines the speed of the incident wave and other characteristics of the wave loading. An incident wave interaction property can be referred to only by an incident wave interaction. For detailed instructions on defining this type of interaction property, see ["Defining an incident wave interaction property," Section 15.14.7](pt03ch15s14hlb05.md).

**Actuator/sensor**

An actuator/sensor interaction property provides the `PROPS`, `JPROPS`, `NPROPS`, and `NJPROPS` variables that are passed into a [`UEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-uel) user subroutine used with an actuator/sensor interaction. For detailed instructions on defining this type of interaction property, see ["Defining an actuator/sensor interaction property," Section 15.14.8](pt03ch15s14hlb06.md).




