# 17.4.2 Can I seed a face or a cell?







You can select edges, faces, or cells to seed; however, Abaqus/CAE creates seeds only along edges. When you select faces or cells to seed, Abaqus/CAE creates seeds only along the edges of the faces or cells. In addition, you can select a set or surface to seed; as a result, Abaqus/CAE creates seeds along the edges of the geometry contained in the set or surface.

When you are applying uniform seeds, you can use a combination of the following methods to select the region to which Abaqus/CAE will apply the seeds:

**Individually/By angle**

You can select edges, faces, or cells individually; or you can use the angle method to select a group of edges or faces. For example, if you choose the angle method and select an edge, Abaqus/CAE then selects every adjacent edge until the angle between the edges is equal to or exceeds the angle that you entered. For more information, see ["Using the angle and feature edge method to select multiple objects," Section 6.2.3](pt01ch06s02hlb03.md).

**Selection filters**

You can use filters to choose the type of object to select—**Edges**, **Faces**, **Cells**, or **All**. By default, Abaqus/CAE allows you to select all types of object. The option to select by angle becomes available only after you select **Edges** or **Faces** from the selection filters. For more information, see ["Filtering your selection based on the type of object," Section 6.3.2](pt01ch06s03s01.md).

**Sets or surfaces**

By default, Abaqus/CAE allows you to apply seeds to edges, faces, and cells that you select from the viewport. Alternatively, you can click **Sets/Surfaces** on the right of the prompt area and select from eligible sets (or surfaces). When you select a set (or surface), Abaqus/CAE applies seeds to every edge in the set (or surface), including every edge of all the cells and faces. Abaqus/CAE ignores any vertices in the set (or surface).




