# 36.5 Assigning element types to skin or stringer reinforcements







You use the Property module to create a skin or stringer reinforcement on a part in your model. You use the Mesh module to assign an element type to a skin or stringer reinforcement. When you are prompted to select the regions to be assigned element types, you must select either **Skins** or **Stringers** from the list of object types in the **Selection** toolbar. 

When you create a skin or a stringer for a geometric part, Abaqus/CAE adds an attribute to the geometric entity. This attribute is used when you mesh the part to generate skin or stringer elements, and these elements share nodes with the underlying elements of the part.

You can use stringer reinforcements in a buckling analysis, and you can use skin reinforcements in a coupled structural-acoustic analysis. If the acoustic medium adjoins a structure, structural-acoustic coupling occurs at the interface. It is recommended that you use surface-based tie constraints to enforce the coupling; however, if you are conducting a structural-acoustic submodeling analysis where the acoustic domain forms the submodel, you must line the interface portion of the submodel boundary with acoustic-structural interface (ASI) elements to enforce the coupling. You can line the interface with ASI elements by creating a skin at the interface and assigning ASI elements to the skin. For detailed information about using skins to create ASI elements on geometry and orphan meshes, see the Dassault Systmes Knowledge Base at [www.3ds.com/support/knowledge-base](http://www.3ds.com/support/knowledge-base).



