# 23.4 Understanding composite layups and distributions







A discrete field is a spatially varying field where values are associated with a node or an element. The Discrete Field toolset allows you to create and manage discrete fields in Abaqus/CAE. A discrete field that is used by a composite layup is called a distribution. Because distributions are applied to specific elements and nodes, you can use a distribution only after you have meshed the part. In most cases you will use a third-party preprocessor that operates on meshed parts to create a distribution that can be applied to a composite layup. For more information, see [Chapter 63, "The Discrete Field toolset](pt06ch63.md).”

You can use a distribution for the following:
- To define a spatially varying local coordinate system that specifies the overall orientation of the composite layup.
- To define an additional rotation for the layup orientation that is varying spatially across the layup.
- To define an additional rotation for a ply orientation that is varying spatially across the ply. You can use a distribution to define the ply orientation only in an Abaqus/Standard analysis.
- To define an overall shell thickness that varies spatially across a conventional shell composite layup.
- To define a ply thickness that varies spatially across a ply in a conventional shell composite layup. You can use a distribution to define the ply thickness only in an Abaqus/Standard analysis.
- To define a nodal thickness that varies spatially across a conventional shell composite layup.
- To define an offset that varies spatially across a conventional shell composite layup. You can use a distribution to define the offset only in an Abaqus/Standard analysis.




