# 31.4.1 An overview of the virtual crack closure technique







You can study the onset and propagation of cracking in quasi-static problems using the virtual crack closure technique (VCCT). VCCT uses the principles of linear elastic fracture mechanics (LEFM) , so it is appropriate for problems in which brittle crack propagation occurs along predefined surfaces. VCCT is based on the assumption that the strain energy released when a crack is extended by a certain amount is the same as the energy required to close the crack by the same amount. 

You can include a VCCT crack in a static or quasi-static analysis procedure. Alternatively, you can include a VCCT crack in an implicit dynamic analysis procedure to simulate the fracture and failure in a structure under high-speed impact loading. VCCT is available only for Abaqus/Standard (three-dimensional solid and shell and two-dimensional planar and axisymmetric models). You can use VCCT to study a crack in parts containing geometry, orphan mesh elements, or a combination of the two. You define a VCCT crack in the Interaction module. You can specify the location of the surfaces that are initially bonded. For more information, see ["Modeling discontinuities as an enriched feature using the extended finite element method," Section 10.7.1 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-aenrichment). 

Creating VCCT  or enhanced VCCT crack propagation models that converge to a successful solution requires some understanding of the principles behind VCCT. See ["Tips for using the VCCT or enhanced VCCT criterion in Abaqus/Standard" in "Crack propagation analysis," Section 11.4.3 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-acrackpropagation-vcct-tipsas), for information that will help you create models that can be analyzed successfully.

For detailed instructions, see ["Creating a VCCT crack for Abaqus/Standard," Section 31.4.2](pt04ch31s04hlb01.md).



