# 30.1 Overview of fluid dynamic analyses







Abaqus/CFD provides advanced computational fluid dynamics (CFD) capabilities for performing fluid dynamic analyses and can be used to solve incompressible flow problems. Incompressible fluid dynamic analyses can involve laminar or turbulent flow, thermal convective problems, and deforming-mesh analyses. For more information, see ["Incompressible fluid dynamic analysis," Section 6.6.2 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-aifluiddyn).

The procedure for creating fluid models in Abaqus/CAE involves the following general steps:

1. When you create a new model database, select a **CFD** model type to specify that you are modeling an Abaqus/CFD analysis. Most of the functionality presented in the Abaqus/CAE interface is then filtered to display only functionality that is valid for an Abaqus/CFD analysis. For more information, see ["Specifying model attributes," Section 9.8.4](pt02ch09s07hlb04.md).
2. In the Part module, create a fluid part that defines the fluid domain (geometric region of the fluid). For more information, see ["Modeling the fluid domain," Section 30.2](pt04ch30s02.md).
3. In the Property module, define the fluid material properties in the model. For more information, see ["Defining the fluid material properties," Section 30.3](pt04ch30s03.md).
4. In the Property module, create and assign a fluid section for the model. The fluid section determines which materials can be present in the fluid part. For more information, see ["Creating homogeneous fluid sections," Section 12.13.13](pt03ch12s13hlb09.md), and ["Creating fluid sections for porous media," Section 12.13.14](pt03ch12s13hlb10.md).
5. In the Assembly module, create an instance of the fluid part.
6. In the Step module, define a fluid analysis step, solver controls, and turbulence model. For more information, see ["Configuring a flow procedure" in "Configuring general analysis procedures," Section 14.11.1](pt03ch14s11s01.md#usi-sim-configure-flow).
7. In the Step module, create field and history output requests. For more information, see ["Abaqus/CFD output variable identifiers," Section 4.2.3 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-out-hcfdoutputvar).
8. In the Load module, define any loads, boundary conditions, or predefined fields acting on the fluid model (see ["Specifying prescribed conditions for a fluid model," Section 30.4](pt04ch30s04.md)).
9. In the Mesh module, create a mesh for the fluid part. For more information, see ["Meshing a fluid model," Section 30.5](pt04ch30s05.md).
10. In the Job module, create a new job and submit the fluid analysis. For more information, see ["Running a fluid analysis," Section 30.6](pt04ch30s06.md).




