# 29.5.3 Modifying fastener properties in the main model







You use the **Properties** tabbed page to specify a property generation script to modify the properties copied into the main model from the template model. The script is executed by Abaqus/CAE only when you click **OK** in the **Edit Fasteners** dialog box, not when Abaqus/CAE creates the input file. See ["Property generation scripts for assembled fasteners" in "About assembled fasteners," Section 29.1.3](pt04ch29s01s03.md#usi-eng-fastener-overview-assm-props), for complete information.

Your property generation scripts must be registered before starting Abaqus/CAE; see ["Registering the property generation script" in "About assembled fasteners," Section 29.1.3](pt04ch29s01s03.md#usi-eng-fastener-overview-assm-props-reg). Any scripts that have been registered will be available for selection on the **Properties** tabbed page. 

**To modify properties in the template model:**

1. From the **Edit Fasteners** dialog box, display the **Properties** tabbed page.
2. By default, the properties copied into the main model from the template model are named with the prefix *TM-1* for the first assembled fastener you create. For example, a connector section named *BoltSection* in the template model will be named *TM-1_BoltSection* in the main model. Subsequent assembled fasteners will use the prefixes *TM-2*, *TM-3*, etc. If desired, you can change the name prefix used in the **Property prefix string** field. The property prefix string must be unique for each assembled fastener.
3. Toggle on **Specify a property generation script**, and select the filename of your script from the list.




