# 24.10 Applying connector loads and connector boundary conditions







In the Load module you can apply a connector force or connector moment to the available components of relative motion of a connector to simulate connector actuation. Similarly, you can prescribe a connector displacement, connector velocity, or connector acceleration for the available components of relative motion of a connector. When you create these connector loads or boundary conditions, you select the wires to which you want to apply the prescribed condition. The best approach for selecting wires is to use the default geometry set name for the wire feature (see ["Creating or modifying wire features for multiple connectors," Section 15.12.9](pt03ch15s12hlb09.md), for more information). The wires that you select must be associated with a connector section assignment. If you select multiple wires, you must ensure that the connector sections assigned to the wires in the connector section assignments have the available components of relative motion for which you want to define forces or moments. If there are insufficient available components of relative motion for the connector force or connector moment, a message appears asking you to select different wires or to change the connection type. 

You can also apply a connector material flow boundary condition to the endpoints of wires that are associated with connector section assignments. For more information, see ["Creating loads," Section 16.8.1](pt03ch16s08hlb01.md), and ["Creating boundary conditions," Section 16.8.2](pt03ch16s08hlb02.md).



