# 47.6.2 Selecting one or more X–Y curves to customize







### 47.6.2 Selecting one or more X--Y curves to customize

To customize a curve, you first select it and then choose customization options. Use the **Curves** field in the **Curve Options** dialog box to select one or more *X–Y* curves to customize. The **Curves** field lists the displayed *X–Y* curves, identifying each curve by name. For information on curve naming conventions, see ["Understanding "Temp" and other X--Y data object names," Section 47.1.3](pt05ch47s01s03.md).

After you have selected one or more *X–Y* curves to customize, you then use the options in the **Attributes** frame to control the line and the symbol representing the data and to enter the text that will appear in the legend.

**To select one or more X–Y curves to customize:**

1. Locate the **Curves** field. The **Curves** field is at the top of the dialog box.
2. Select one or more *X--Y* curves to customize. For more information on selecting multiple items in dialog boxes, see ["Selecting multiple items from lists and tables," Section 3.2.11](pt01ch03s02s11.md). **Note:**To make an *X--Y* curve available for selection, you must first plot it. If you have selected one curve, the **Attributes** frame displays the current attributes of that curve. If you have selected multiple curves, Abaqus/CAE displays the **Legend text** field as blank. The display in the **Attributes** frame varies depending on whether the selected curves have the same attributes or not. If the attributes are the same, Abaqus/CAE displays them; if the attributes differ, Abaqus/CAE displays the following: - The **Show** and **Show symbol** checkboxes are gray. - The line **Color** and symbol **Color** text fields display the term **As is**. - The **Style**, **Thickness**, **Symbol**, and **Size** buttons are blank. - The **Frequency** text field is blank.
3. From the **Attributes** field, you can control the following: - The text that appears in the legend describing the data. For more information, see ["Customizing the X--Y plot legend," Section 47.6.3](pt05ch47s05hlb02.md). - The appearance of the line representing the data (the curve). For more information, see ["Customizing the appearance of an X--Y curve," Section 47.6.4](pt05ch47s05hlb03.md). - The appearance of the symbols along the curve. For more information, see ["Customizing the symbols used on an X--Y curve," Section 47.6.5](pt05ch47s05hlb04.md).




