# 44.1.2 Understanding how contours are rendered







Contour values are drawn on element faces using one of two methods: texture mapping or tessellation. Texture mapping is a high-performance rendering method that essentially lays an image of the contour values (the texture) over an image of the model, similar to the process of wrapping a present. Tessellation is a method of transforming arbitrary contour values into repeating patterns of distinct shapes, such as triangles or simple polygons; the shape values are computed face by face and can take a long time for large models. Texture mapping is the default and preferred method and will maximize the performance of Abaqus/CAE. Although certain graphics adapters do not support texture mapping properly, Abaqus/CAE can emulate texture mapping in software. However, line-type and isosurface contours, the display of contour edges, shrinking elements about their centroid, and contours on CAXA or SAXA elements are supported only by the tessellation method.

The differences between contour plots generated with texture mapping or tessellation are minimal; you may see slight differences in the appearance of contour bands on quadrilateral element faces. Texture mapping can sometimes introduce precision issues; for example, if the contour value is exactly on a limit, the color may appear as just above or below the value.

**Note:**If you display tessellated contours under intense lighting, the colors in the contours might not match the colors displayed in the legend because the light can fade some colors on the surface facets. For more information, see ["Controlling model lighting," Section 76.13](pt07ch76hla12.md).

For detailed information on choosing the contour method, see ["Choosing the contour method," Section 44.5.6](pt05ch44s02hlb06.md).



