# 47.6.6 Editing the list of auto-colors for X–Y plots







### 47.6.6 Editing the list of auto-colors for X--Y plots

Abaqus/CAE assigns colors to *X–Y* curves automatically by referring to the color definitions in the *X–Y* auto colors list. This list provides colors for *X–Y* curves in the same way that the general **Auto Colors** list is used to color geometry and mesh elements, but these two color lists are separate entities. 

This section describes how to edit the *X–Y* auto colors list to modify the set of default color assignments for *X–Y* curves. You can also change the color assignment for an individual *X–Y* curve from the **Curve Options** dialog box. See ["Customizing the appearance of an X--Y curve," Section 47.6.4](pt05ch47s05hlb03.md).

**To edit the colors in the X–Y Auto-Color List:**

1. In the Results Tree, click mouse button 3 on the **XY Plots** container, then select **Edit XY-Auto-Colors** from the list that appears. Abaqus/CAE displays the **Edit XY-Auto-Colors** dialog box.
2. To insert a new color into the *X--Y* auto colors list: 1. Highlight the color in the *X--Y* auto colors list that you want to precede or follow the color that you add. 2. Click **Insert Before** or **Insert After** to add a new color in the indicated location in the *X--Y* auto colors list. The **Select Color** dialog box opens. 3. Choose a color by following the steps described in ["Customizing colors," Section 3.2.9](pt01ch03s02s09.md); then click **OK** to close the **Select Color** dialog box. Abaqus/CAE adds the new color in the selected location.
3. To change one of the colors in the *X--Y* auto colors list, double-click the color and select a new color from the **Select Color** dialog box that appears.
4. To move a color within the *X--Y* auto colors list, highlight the color and click either **Move Up** or **Move Down** to move the color one step in the selected direction.
5. To delete a color from the *X--Y* auto colors list, highlight the color and click **Delete**.
6. Continue adding, changing, moving, and deleting colors until the *X--Y* auto colors list contains the colors you want in the desired order.
7. Click **OK**. Abaqus/CAE uses the revised *X--Y* auto colors list for any subsequent color coding of *X--Y* curves.




