# 41.3 Interpreting diagnostic information







In a typical Abaqus/Standard analysis a load is applied to the model in increments, and Abaqus attempts to calculate the model's response to each incremental load. Abaqus further reduces the response calculations by performing iterations to approach the result for an increment. If the iterations are not approaching a solution (converging), Abaqus stops and attempts to solve again, this time with a smaller load increment. If Abaqus makes too many attempts without a solution, the analysis is ended. For more information about load increments, see [Chapter 7, "Analysis Solution and Control," of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usbacontrol).

In an Abaqus/Explicit analysis, incrementation is based on a large number of small time increments. The time incrementation is made according to an estimated stable time increment size based on the size of the elements in the model. Abaqus/Explicit uses a central-difference time integration rule to integrate the equations of motion, so there is no need for multiple attempts and iterations in each increment.

Viewing the diagnostic information can help you determine the causes of convergence problems so that you can make the necessary corrections in the model. Diagnostic information also indicates potential problems and areas for improvement even when a converged solution is reached. With proper interpretation of the available diagnostic information, you can improve a model to achieve the results that match your analysis intent. The following sections describe the individual pages in the **Job Diagnostics** dialog box (the available pages depend on the analysis type and results):
- ["Diagnostics summary," Section 41.3.1](pt05ch41s03hlb01.md)
- ["Incrementation," Section 41.3.2](pt05ch41s03hlb02.md)
- ["Warnings and errors," Section 41.3.3](pt05ch41s03hlb03.md)
- ["Residuals," Section 41.3.4](pt05ch41s03hlb04.md)
- ["Contact," Section 41.3.5](pt05ch41s03hlb05.md)
- ["Elements," Section 41.3.6](pt05ch41s03hlb06.md)
- ["Other," Section 41.3.7](pt05ch41s03hlb07.md)




