# 40.4 Understanding toolsets in the Visualization module







Toolsets in the Visualization module provide additional control over data display. Unless otherwise stated, the toolsets described in this section are for postprocessing of model and results data from output databases only; only selected toolsets are for use with model data from the current model database. The following toolsets are available in the Visualization module:
- The Color Code toolset allows you to customize the edge and fill color of individual elements. For more information, see ["Coloring nodes or elements in the Visualization module," Section 77.6](pt07ch77s06.md).
- The Coordinate System toolset allows you to create local coordinate systems for use in postprocessing. For more information, see ["Creating coordinate systems during postprocessing," Section 42.8](pt05ch42s06.md).
- The Create Field Output toolset allows you to perform operations on the field output available in an output database. For more information, see ["Creating new field output," Section 42.7](pt05ch42s05.md).
- The Display Group toolset allows you to selectively plot one or more items from a model or from an output database. For more information, see [Chapter 78, "Using display groups to display subsets of your model](pt07ch78.md)."
- The Free Body toolset allows you to create and delete free body cuts, display or hide them in the viewport, and customize several aspects of their appearance. For more information, see [Chapter 67, "The Free Body toolset](pt06ch67.md)."
- The Job Diagnostics toolset allows you to access the diagnostic information written to the output database during an Abaqus/Standard analysis job. For more information, see [Chapter 41, "Viewing diagnostic output](pt05ch41.md)."
- The Path toolset allows you to specify a path through your model along which you can obtain and view *X--Y* data. For more information, see [Chapter 48, "Viewing results along a path](pt05ch48.md)."
- The Query toolset allows you to obtain information about your model, both for data from the current model database or for data from an output database. For more information, see [Chapter 50, "Querying the model in the Visualization module](pt05ch50.md)."
- The Stream toolset allows you to display streamlines to investigate velocity or vorticity in a fluid flow analysis. For more information, see [Chapter 74, "The Stream toolset](pt06ch74.md)."
- The View Cut toolset allows you to create cuts through a model so that you can visualize the interior or selected sections of the model. This functionality is available for model data from the current model database or from an output database. For more information, see [Chapter 80, "Cutting through a model](pt07ch80.md)."
- The XY Data toolset allows you to create and operate on *X--Y* data objects. For more information, see [Chapter 47, "X--Y plotting](pt05ch47.md)."




