# 66.2 Applying bounding values to field and history data







Bounding values in a filter definition enable you to investigate the maximum or minimum values for a particular output request and to establish an upper or lower bound on the variable values that are returned for an output request. You can establish bounding values for both filtered and unfiltered data; to specify these values in a filter definition without performing Butterworth filtering or either type of Chebyshev filtering on your data, define an **Operator** filter, which enables you to implement bounding values on an output request without changing the output data in any other way. 

Abaqus/CAE provides three types of bounding values: 
- **Maximum** bounding values return the highest value within each output interval for the variables in an output request.
- **Minimum** bounding values return the lowest value within each output interval for the variables in an output request.
- **Absolute maximum** bounding values return the highest absolute value for the variables in an output request within each output interval.

In addition, you can set a limit on the bounding value, which determines the highest or lowest value that Abaqus/CAE records for variables that use this filter. If desired, you can stop the analysis when any variables in an output request reach this limiting value.

By default, each component of a tensor or vector quantity is filtered individually and the maximum, minimum, or absolute maximum value and the limiting values are reported separately for each component. You can, however, apply a filter directly to an invariant.



