# 67.3 Selection methods for free body cross-sections







You can use the following selection methods to specify the items that will be contained in a free body cross-section:
- To specify edges or faces by picking them directly from the viewport, select **Surfaces** from the **Item** list, then select **Pick from viewport** from the **Method** list. Abaqus/CAE automatically enters the pick mode and prompts you to select items for the display group. See [Chapter 6, "Selecting objects within the viewport](pt01ch06.md)," for more information on picking items in the viewport. Click **Done** in the prompt area when you have finished picking items in the viewport. Click **Edit selection**, **Add selection**, or **Delete selection** in the dialog box to further modify your viewport selections.
- To specify elements or nodes by number, select **Element labels** or **Node labels** from the **Method** list. Select the name of the part instance to which the nodes or elements belong from the list in the **Part instance** field on the right side of the **Free Body Cross-Section** dialog box. In the **Labels** field, type a list of element or node numbers separated by commas or a range of numbers optionally followed by an increment; for example, 1:10 or 1:10:2. You can specify elements or nodes by number when you create a free body cross-section using the **Elements and nodes** selection method.
- To specify element, node, or surface sets, select **Element sets**, **Node sets**, or **Surface sets** from the **Method** list. A list of the available set names in your model appears on the right side of the **Free Body Cross-Section** dialog box. Select one or more set names from this list (see ["Selecting multiple items from lists and tables," Section 3.2.11](pt01ch03s02s11.md), for more information).
- If you selected **Display groups** from the **Item** list, a list of the available display groups in your model appears on the right side of the **Free Body Cross-Section** dialog box. Select one or more display group names from this list (see ["Selecting multiple items from lists and tables," Section 3.2.11](pt01ch03s02s11.md), for more information).




