# 57.13 Defining a PSD definition







Use the PSD definition method to define the frequency dependence of the random loading in a random response analysis step. For more information, see ["Defining the frequency functions" in "Random response analysis," Section 6.3.11 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-anl-arandomresponse-psdfunction).

**To define a PSD definition:**

1. Display the **Edit Amplitude** dialog box as described in ["Selecting an amplitude type to define," Section 57.3](pt06ch57s03.md).
2. Click the arrow to the right of the **Specification units** field, and specify the units in which you want to define the curve. - Select **Power** to define the frequency function directly in power units. - Select **Decibel** to define the frequency function in decibel units. - Select **Gravity (base motion)** if the frequency function will be used to define a base motion in *g*-units. If you choose these units, you must define the acceleration of gravity.
3. If you selected **Decibel** units, enter a value for the **Reference power**.
4. If you selected **Gravity** units, enter a value for the **Reference gravity**.
5. In the data table, enter or import the data values for the function: - **Real** and **Imaginary** parts of the function, in decibels or in units2 per frequency. - **Frequency**, in cycles/time, or frequency band number (for **Decibel** units). For detailed information on how to enter data, see ["Entering tabular data," Section 3.2.7](pt01ch03s02s07.md)
6. Toggle on **Specify data in an external user subroutine** if you will provide the PSD function in user subroutine [`UPSD`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-upsd).
7. Click **OK** to save your amplitude definition and to close the **Edit Amplitude** dialog box.




