# 77.1.2 Color coding in the Visualization module







The color coding process is slightly different in the Visualization module than in other Abaqus/CAE modules. You control the overall edge and fill colors of your model using the **Color & Style** options in the **Common Plot Options** or **Superimpose Plot Options** dialog box. Using these options, you select a single color for all element and surface edges and a separate color for all element faces and surfaces. The colors you select apply uniformly to the entire model.

You can also control the colors of individual elements and part instances using the **Color Code** options. The **Color Code** dialog box allows you to select separate colors for individual items. You must use the **Color Code** options to execute any complex, nonuniform color scheme.

By default, individual item colors override the overall common or superimposed [edge color](pt05ch55s03hlb03.md) and [fill color](pt05ch55s02s01.md). You can change this behavior by using the **Color & Style** options in the **Common Plot Options** or **Superimpose Plot Options** dialog box to specify whether individual or overall item colors should take precedence. (Individual item colors do not apply to contour plots.)

The Visualization module offers a smaller subset of color mappings than are available in the other modules. When an output database is displayed in the current viewport, the available color mappings for color coding are part instances, elements, nodes, constraints, materials, sections, display groups, averaging regions, internal sets, layups, and plies; when a model in the current model database is displayed, the only available color mapping is by part instance. However, you can control both the edge and fill colors when you customize colors for the individual objects in the current viewport, and you can choose to apply color coding to the entire model or to its nodes or elements only. In addition, settings in the Visualization module depend upon other options; when you specify an individual item color in the **Color Code** dialog box, Abaqus/CAE applies the color based on two characteristics of the current plot:

**Color precedence setting**

Abaqus/CAE applies the color if, on the **Color & Style** page of the **Common Plot Options** or **Superimpose Plot Options** dialog box, **Allow color code selections to override options in this dialog** is toggled on.

**Render style**

In the wireframe and hidden render styles, Abaqus/CAE displays only element edges. If the current plot uses the wireframe or hidden render style, Abaqus/CAE applies the individual item color to those edges.

In the filled and shaded render styles, Abaqus/CAE displays element faces as well as element edges. If the current plot uses the filled or shaded render style, Abaqus/CAE applies the individual item fill color to the element faces and the individual item edge color to the element edges.

In the filled and shaded render styles, line-type elements (such as beams) are treated as if their lines are faces. In the filled and shaded render styles, Abaqus/CAE applies the individual item fill color to the lines representing such an element.




