# 81.8 Overwriting plug-ins







Upon startup, Abaqus/CAE searches for plug-ins starting in the Abaqus parent directory, then in the Abaqus home directory, and finally in the current directory. Plug-in names are case sensitive. For example, a plug-in named `myPlugin` is different from a plug-in named `MyPlugin`. If Abaqus/CAE finds a plug-in with the same name and case in multiple directories, the plug-in found later in the search will overwrite one found earlier in the search. This approach enables you to use a customized version of a plug-in that resides only in your home directory or current directory; however, in most cases you should avoid naming conflicts with plug-ins.

Python searches for modules according to the order specified in the *sys.path* list and stops searching as soon as it finds a match for the module name. For example, if you have a utility module called `myUtils.py` stored in two different plug-in directories and these directories contain different code, both plug-ins will reference the same module—the one found first in the *sys.path* list.

You can use Python's package style for storing and referencing your modules to avoid unintentional overwriting of plug-ins or accessing of the wrong module. Start by creating a directory with a detailed name that is unlikely to be duplicated by others, and store your `_plugin.py` file in that directory. Create another directory of the same name within the first directory, and place your other plug-in files in the newer directory with an empty file named `__init__.py`, so that the directory structure looks as follows:

```
torqueCalculator
   torqueCalculator_plugin.py
   torqueCalculator
      __init__.py
      torqueUtils.py
      torqueForm.py
      torqueDB.py         
```

When you import files in your code, use the package name to qualify the import. For example, inside `torqueForm.py`, you can qualify the import with the following statement:

```
from torqueCalculator.torqueDB import TorqueDB
```



