# 81.6.1 Where are plug-in files stored?







You can install a plug-in with Abaqus and make it available to every user at your site. Alternatively, you can install a plug-in in your home directory, and it will not be visible to other users. When you start Abaqus/CAE, it searches for plug-in files in the following directories and all their subdirectories:
- `*abaqus_dir*\abaqus_plugins`, where *abaqus_dir* is the Abaqus parent directory.
- `*abaqus_dir*\code\python\lib\abaqus_plugins`, where *abaqus_dir* is the Abaqus parent directory.
- `*home_dir*\abaqus_plugins`, where *home_dir* is your home directory.
- `*current_dir*\abaqus_plugins`, where *current_dir* is the current directory.
- `*plugin_dir*`, where *plugin_dir* is a directory specified in the `abaqus_v6.env` file by the environment variable **plugin_central_dir**. You can store plug-ins in a central location that can be accessed by all users at your site if the directory to which **plugin_central_dir** refers is mounted on a file system that all users can access. For example, ``` plugin_central_dir = r'\\fileServer\sharedDirectory' ``` For more information, see ["Using the Abaqus environment file," Section 4.1 of the Abaqus Installation and Licensing Guide](../sgb/sgb-link.md#sgb-chp-env-using).

Abaqus/CAE will import any files in these directories that match the naming convention `*_plugin.py`. These files must contain registration commands. The name of the file must follow the rules described in ["Standard Abaqus Scripting Interface exceptions," Section 5.5.2 of the Abaqus Scripting User's Guide](../cmd/cmd-link.md#cmd-int-acl-except-standardacl).


