# 81.7 How are kernel plug-ins executed?







Abaqus executes a kernel plug-in by issuing a command to the kernel of the form *moduleName.functionName*. The module name and the function name are the names that you supplied in the registration command for that plug-in. 

When Abaqus/CAE starts and imports a plug-in, the directory in which the plug-in is located is stored by Abaqus/CAE. The first time that the plug-in is invoked, Abaqus/CAE updates the kernel’s *sys.path* list with that plug-in’s directory. The next time that plug-in is invoked, Abaqus/CAE issues the commands inside the plug-in but does not update the *sys.path*.

For example, consider the `myUtils_plugin.py` and `myUtils.py` files described in previous sections. Assume that you stored these two files in a subdirectory called `myPlugins` in the `abaqus_plugins` directory in your home directory. The first time that you click **Print Current Viewport** in the **Plug-ins** menu, Abaqus/CAE sends the following commands to the kernel:

```
import sys
sys.path.append('*path to your home dir*/abaqus_plugins/myPlugins')
import myUtils
myUtils.printCurrentViewport()
```

The next time you click **Print Current Viewport** in the **Plug-ins** menu, Abaqus/CAE sends only the following command to the kernel:

```
myUtils.printCurrentViewport()
```

Since Abaqus/CAE updates the *sys.path* list, your plug-in code does not need to perform this task to import modules that it needs. This assumes that those modules are located in the same directory as the plug-in. If you have to import modules that are not located in the same directory, you must augment the *sys.path* list. If you need to augment the *sys.path* list, you should use functions that determine the file locations automatically, rather than hard-coding the path to the plug-ins in your file. This makes it easy to move plug-ins to different locations without having to modify their code. The following example of `myUtils.py` illustrates an example of augmenting the *sys.path* list:

```
import sys, os

# Full path (with name) to this file
absPath = os.path.abspath(__file__)  

# Full directory specification
absDir = os.path.dirname(absPath)    

# Full subdirectory specification
subDir = os.path.join(absDir, 'mySubDir') 
sys.path.append(subDir)

# myModule is located in subDir
import myModule  

*rest of module code*
```



