# 3.2.11 Abaqus documentation







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  Abaqus/CAE  

##### **References**

- ["Execution procedure for Abaqus: overview," Section 3.1.1](pt01ch03s01abo02.md)
- ["Getting help," Section 2.6 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#uss-hlp)

### Overview

Abaqus documentation is installed separately from the product and is viewed through a web browser or PDF reader. See [Chapter 2, "Installing Abaqus," of the Abaqus Installation and Licensing Guide](../sgb/sgb-link.md#sgb-chp-install), for information on installing the Abaqus documentation.

The documentation consists of the following books:
- [Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](book01.md)
- [Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi)
- [Abaqus Keywords Reference Guide](../key/key-link.md#key)
- [Abaqus Theory Guide](../stm/stm-link.md#stm)
- [Abaqus User Subroutines Reference Guide](../sub/sub-link.md#sub)
- [Abaqus Glossary](../gls/gls-link.md#gls)
- [Abaqus Example Problems Guide](../exa/exa-link.md#exa)
- [Abaqus Benchmarks Guide](../bmk/bmk-link.md#bmk)
- [Abaqus Verification Guide](../ver/ver-link.md#ver)
- [Abaqus Release Notes](../rnb/rnb-link.md#rnb)
- [Abaqus Installation and Licensing Guide](../sgb/sgb-link.md#sgb)
- [Getting Started with Abaqus: Interactive Edition](../gsa/gsa-link.md#gsa)
- [Getting Started with Abaqus: Keywords Edition](../gsk/gsk-link.md#gsk)
- [Abaqus Scripting User's Guide](../cmd/cmd-link.md#cmd)
- [Abaqus Scripting Reference Guide](../ker/ker-link.md#ker)
- [Abaqus GUI Toolkit User's Guide](../cus/cus-link.md#cus)
- [Abaqus GUI Toolkit Reference Guide](../gui/gui-link.md#gui)
- [Using Abaqus Online Documentation](../hhp/hhp-link.md#hhp)

### Using Abaqus documentation

**To view the documentation: **

1. Type **abaqus doc**. The documentation collection page (`index.html` or` index.pdf` file) opens in either a web browser or Adobe Acrobat Reader, depending on which formats of documentation were installed and configured by your system administrator. See ["Information to enter during product installation," Section 2.4.2 of the Abaqus Installation and Licensing Guide](../sgb/sgb-link.md#sgb-chp-install-prod-prompts), and ["Configuration of documentation application](pt01ch03s02abx11.md#usb-int-ddocproc-config)" below. The documentation collection page lists the book titles grouped by category.
2. Click the title of a book to display it. In the HTML documentation, each book opens in a new browser window or tab. The book window contains four HTML frames: the navigation frame (top frame), the expand/collapse frame (upper left frame), the table of contents frame (lower left frame), and the text frame (right frame).
3. Navigate and search the book's content. - In the HTML documentation, use any of the following methods: - Use the buttons in the expand/collapse frame to vary the level of detail displayed in the table of contents frame. - Use the back and forward arrows in the text frame to navigate sequentially through the text. You can also use the web browser functions to return to recently viewed pages. - Expand the topic headings in the table of contents by clicking the book icon to the left of the heading. To jump directly to a section whose title is displayed in the table of contents, click that title. - Use the search panel located in the navigation frame to search for specific words or phrases. - In the PDF documentation, use the standard controls in Adobe Acrobat Reader to navigate and search the books.

For more detailed information on viewing and searching the HTML or PDF documentation, refer to [Using Abaqus Online Documentation](../hhp/hhp-link.md#hhp).

### Configuration of documentation application

The **abaqus doc** command locates a web browser executable or the Adobe Acrobat Reader executable depending on which documentation format was installed and configured by your system administrator.

#### Configuration of web browser

If the HTML documentation was installed and configured by your system administrator, the **abaqus doc** command will locate a web browser executable as follows:

**Windows platforms**: The **abaqus doc** command uses your default web browser.

**UNIX and Linux platforms**: The **abaqus doc** command searches the system path for Firefox. If the help system cannot find Firefox, an error is displayed.The **browser_type** and **browser_path** variables can be set in the Abaqus environment file to modify the behavior of this command. For more information, see ["System customization parameters," Section 4.1.4 of the Abaqus Installation and Licensing Guide](../sgb/sgb-link.md#sgb-chp-env-sys).

#### Configuration of PDF reader executable

If the PDF documentation was installed and configured by your system administrator, the **abaqus doc** command will locate the Adobe Acrobat Reader executable as follows:

**Windows platforms**: The **abaqus doc** command uses the default installed Acrobat Reader.

**UNIX and Linux platforms**: The **abaqus doc** command searches the system path for the `acroread` executable. You can also set the **doc_resource** variable (in the Abaqus environment file) to the path of the `acroread` executable. For more information, see ["System customization parameters," Section 4.1.4 of the Abaqus Installation and Licensing Guide](../sgb/sgb-link.md#sgb-chp-env-sys).

### Command summary

| **abaqus doc** |  |
| --- | --- |
|  |  |




