# 3.2.5 Dymola model execution







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

##### **References**

- ["Execution procedure for Abaqus: overview," Section 3.1.1](pt01ch03s01abo02.md)
- ["SIMULIA Co-Simulation Engine director execution," Section 3.2.3](pt01ch03s02abx03.md)

### Overview

You can perform a co-simulation between an Abaqus/Standard or Abaqus/Explicit model and a model exported from Dymola. This procedure requires that you have the following two files available in your current working directory: `dymosim.dll`, which contains the Dymola export of your model details, and `libdsdll.dll`, which contains a basic collection of Dymola libraries. See ["Structural-to-logical co-simulation," Section 17.4.1](pt04ch17s04aus103.md), for details on creating or obtaining these files.

### Command summary

| **abaqus dymola** | [**input**](pt01ch03s02abx05.md#input1-usb-int-dcosimdymolaproc)=*Dymola map file name* |
| --- | --- |
|  | [**port**](pt01ch03s02abx05.md#port2-usb-int-dcosimdymolaproc)=*co-simulation port number* [**host**](pt01ch03s02abx05.md#host3-usb-int-dcosimdymolaproc)=*co-simulation host name* |

### Command line options

**input**

This option is used to specify the map file name. The map file has a `.sgn` file extension.

**port**

This option is used to specify the TCP/UDP port number for co-simulation between solvers using the direct coupling interface, which includes co-simulation between Abaqus and certain third-party analysis programs. Set **port** equal to the port number used for the connection. The default value is `48000`. The default port number that Abaqus uses to initiate communication can be set with the **cosimulation_port** parameter in the environment file (see ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md)). This option is used in conjunction with the **host** option. For more information, see ["Selecting TCP/UDP port numbers" in "Execution procedure for Abaqus: overview," Section 3.1.1](pt01ch03s01abo02.md#usb-int-doverview-port).

**host**

This option is used to specify the host name for co-simulation between solvers using the direct coupling interface, which includes co-simulation between Abaqus and certain third-party analysis programs. This option specifies the name of the machine that is hosting the connection. Refer to the third-party program documentation to determine if the **host** option is required. This option is used in conjunction with the **port** option.

### Example

The following example illustrates use of the Dymola execution procedure in a co-simulation involving Abaqus/Explicit and an exported Dymola model.

#### Running the Dymola simulation

Use the following command to start the Dymola simulation, which will listen on port 44444 for a connection from Abaqus/Explicit:

```
abaqus dymola input=inverted_pend_map port=44444
```

#### Running the Abaqus/Explicit simulation

Use the following command for the Abaqus/Explicit analysis, which will connect to the Dymola simulation on machine “mecury,” via port 44444:

```
abaqus job=inverted_pend_xpl host=mercury port=44444
```




