# 3.5.4 Parallel execution in Abaqus/CFD







**Products: **Abaqus/CFD  Abaqus/CAE  

##### **References**

- ["Obtaining information," Section 3.2.1](pt01ch03s02abx01.md)
- ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md)
- ["Controlling job parallel execution," Section 19.8.8 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-ana-jobeditor-parallelizationbtn)

### Overview

Parallel execution in Abaqus/CFD: 
- reduces run time for analyses that require a large number of increments;
- reduces run time for analyses that contain a large number of nodes and elements;
- produces analysis results that are independent of the number of processors used for the analysis; and
- is available for both shared memory computers and computer clusters using an MPI-based domain decomposition parallel implementation.

### Invoking parallel processing

Abaqus/CFD uses domain-based parallelism implemented with explicit message passing for both shared memory and distributed memory computers. All procedures provided by Abaqus/CFD and their associated features are fully parallel (["Parallel execution: overview," Section 3.5.1](pt01ch03s05aus32.md)). Parallel execution is invoked by specifying the number of processors to be used.

| **Input File Usage: ** | Enter the following input on the command line: |
| --- | --- |
|  | **abaqus** **job**=*job-name* **cpus**=*n* For example, the following input will run the job "manifold" on two processors: ``` abaqus job=manifold cpus=2 ``` |

| **Abaqus/CAE Usage: ** | Job module: job editor: **Parallelization**: toggle on **Use multiple processors**, and specify the number of processors, *n* |
| --- | --- |

### Domain-based parallelism

 Abaqus/CFD uses a domain-decomposition message passing paradigm for its parallel implementation. An element-based decomposition strategy is used that minimizes the number of communications required between subdomains while providing a nearly uniform computational work distribution among the processors. The number of domains maps exactly to the number of user-specified processors for a given calculation. The load-balancing procedures are implemented in parallel as well, so that you can avoid time consuming serial load-balancing procedures at the start of a calculation. Every attempt has been made to ensure that Abaqus/CFD provides scalable parallel solutions for a broad range of applications. All procedures and features in Abaqus/CFD are provided with a fully parallel implementation. All output is serialized automatically for the user so that there is no translation between parallel domains and the original user input. In addition, this permits Abaqus/CFD to restart seamlessly on any number of processors, regardless of how many were used for the original computation.

#### Co-simulation

 The co-simulation technique (["Co-simulation: overview," Section 17.1.1](pt04ch17s01abo17.md)) for run-time coupling of Abaqus/CFD to Abaqus/Standard or to Abaqus/Explicit can be used with Abaqus/CFD running either in serial or parallel. 

#### Restart

There are no restrictions on features that can be included in steps defined in a restart analysis. The number of processors used for the restart analysis is not required to be the same as the number of processors used in the original analysis. 

### Output

There are no output restrictions.




