# 2.3.5 Eulerian surface definition







**Product: **Abaqus/Explicit  

##### **References**

- ["Surfaces: overview," Section 2.3.1](pt01ch02s03aus16.md)
- ["Eulerian analysis," Section 14.1.1](pt04ch14s01aus90.md)
- ["Contact interaction analysis: overview," Section 36.1.1](pt09ch36s01abo33.md)
- [*EULERIAN SECTION](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-meulsection)
- [*SURFACE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-msurface)

### Overview

An Eulerian surface:
- must be three-dimensional;
- must be defined as model data;
- can be used with the general contact algorithm in Abaqus/Explicit; and
- is created by specifying the name of an Eulerian material instance.

### What are Eulerian surfaces and why use them?

An Eulerian surface represents the exterior surface of a particular Eulerian material instance in an Abaqus/Explicit analysis. Since Eulerian materials flow through the Eulerian mesh, their surfaces cannot be defined by a simple list of element faces. Instead, these surfaces often lie within Eulerian elements and must be computed in each time increment using element volume fraction data.

You can use Eulerian surfaces to define specific interactions with Lagrangian surfaces in Abaqus/Explicit's general contact algorithm. Once defined, you can reference Eulerian surfaces in inclusions, exclusions, and interaction definitions. You cannot combine or crop Eulerian surfaces.

Eulerian surface definitions are not required for the use of Eulerian-Lagrangian contact. If you specify “automatic” contact for the entire model, the exterior surface of all Eulerian materials will automatically be considered for contact.

#### Advantages of creating Eulerian surfaces

You can use Eulerian surfaces to:
- Assign contact properties for contact interactions involving a particular Eulerian material instance.
- Exclude interactions between Eulerian materials and Lagrangian bodies that are unlikely to make contact, simplifying the contact problem and reducing computational cost.

### Creating an Eulerian surface

To create an Eulerian surface, you must specify the name of a material instance that is present in the model. The material instance names are defined as part of the Eulerian section (see ["Eulerian elements," Section 32.14.1](pt06ch32s14alm59.md)). Abaqus/Explicit calculates the exterior boundary of the specified material instance and defines a surface corresponding to that boundary. The surface is recalculated in each time increment as the material deforms.

| **Input File Usage: ** | ``` [*SURFACE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-msurface), TYPE=EULERIAN MATERIAL, NAME=*name* *material instance name*, ``` |
| --- | --- |




