# 3.2.1 Obtaining information







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

##### **Reference**

- ["Execution procedure for Abaqus: overview," Section 3.1.1](pt01ch03s01abo02.md)

### Overview

The Abaqus execution procedure can be used to obtain help regarding command syntax or information about the installation and computing environment.

### Command summary

| **abaqus** | **{**[**help**](pt01ch03s02abx01.md#help1-usb-int-dinformation)** | **[**information**](pt01ch03s02abx01.md#information2-usb-int-dinformation)=**{**`environment`** | **`local`** | **`memory`** | **`release`** | **`support`** | **`system`** | **`all`**}** [[**job**](pt01ch03s02abx01.md#job3-usb-int-dinformation)=*job-name*]** | **[**whereami**](pt01ch03s02abx01.md#whereami4-usb-int-dinformation)**}** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |

### Command line options

**help**

This option prints a summary of the **abaqus** command syntax.

**information**

This option writes information about the installation and the environment that is in effect to the screen. The following information is output for all information requests: the current release, the directory in which Abaqus is located, and the directory in which the information files are located.
- If **information**=`environment`, the current settings of the environment file options are displayed.
- If **information**=`local`, the local installation notes are output.
- If **information**=`memory`, some suggestions for setting memory parameters for analysis jobs are output.
- If **information**=`release`, information is provided about where to locate the current release notes.
- If **information**=`support`, information on diagnosing hardware-related issues is provided. Please send this information to systems support when requesting assistance.
- If **information**=`system`, information is provided about system software and hardware resources (operating system level, compiler levels, processor type, graphics board, memory, etc).
- If **information**=`all`, information on all of the above information topics is output.

**job**

If a *job-name* is specified, the information text is written to the file `*job-name*.log`.

**whereami**

This option prints the location of the Abaqus release directory.

### Examples

Use the following command to display the local installation notes:

```
abaqus information=local
```

The following command will write the local installation notes to the file `support.log`:
```
abaqus information=local job=support
```




