# 3.2.2 Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, and Abaqus/CFD execution







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  Abaqus/CFD  

##### **Reference**

- ["Execution procedure for Abaqus: overview," Section 3.1.1](pt01ch03s01abo02.md)

### Overview

Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, and Abaqus/CFD are executed by running the Abaqus execution procedure. Several parameters can be set either on the command line or in the environment file (see ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md)). Alternatively, you can use the convenient Abaqus/CAE user interface to submit an Abaqus analysis from an input file and set the analysis parameters; see ["Understanding analysis jobs," Section 19.2 of the Abaqus/CAE User's Guide](../usi/usi-link.md#usi-ana-concepts).

Abaqus enforces a character limit on file names. For any command line reference to a file, the total length of the file name, including the path description, cannot exceed 256 characters.

### Command summary

| **abaqus** | [**job**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#job1-usb-int-danalysisproc)=*job-name* |
| --- | --- |
|  | **[**[**analysis**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#analysis2-usb-int-danalysisproc)** | **[**datacheck**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#datacheck3-usb-int-danalysisproc)** | **[**parametercheck**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#parametercheck4-usb-int-danalysisproc)** | **[**continue**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#continue5-usb-int-danalysisproc)** | **[**convert**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#convert6-usb-int-danalysisproc)=**{**`select`** | **`odb`** | **`state`** | **`all`**}**** | **[**recover**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#recover7-usb-int-danalysisproc)** | **[**syntaxcheck**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#syntaxcheck8-usb-int-danalysisproc)** | **[**information**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#information9-usb-int-danalysisproc)=**{**`environment`** | **`local`** | **`memory`** | **`release`** | **`support`** | **`system`** | **`all`**}****]** **[**[**input**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#input10-usb-int-danalysisproc)=*input-file***]** **[**[**user**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#user11-usb-int-danalysisproc)=**{***source-file*** | ***object-file***}****]** **[**[**oldjob**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#oldjob12-usb-int-danalysisproc)=*oldjob-name***]** **[**[**fil**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#fil13-usb-int-danalysisproc)=**{**`append`** | **`new`**}****]** **[**[**globalmodel**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#globalmodel14-usb-int-danalysisproc)=**{***results file-name*** | ***output database file-name***}****]** **[**[**cpus**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#cpus15-usb-int-danalysisproc)=*number-of-cpus***]** **[**[**parallel**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#parallel16-usb-int-danalysisproc)=**{**`domain`** | **`loop`**}****]** **[**[**domains**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#domains17-usb-int-danalysisproc)=*number-of-domains***]** **[**[**dynamic_load_balancing**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#dynamic_load_balancing18-usb-int-danalysisproc)**]** **[**[**mp_mode**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#mp_mode19-usb-int-danalysisproc)=**{**`mpi`** | **`threads`**}****]** **[**[**standard_parallel**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#standard_parallel20-usb-int-danalysisproc)=**{**`all`** | **`solver`**}****]** **[**[**gpus**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#gpus21-usb-int-danalysisproc)=*number-of-gpgpus***]** **[**[**memory**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#memory22-usb-int-danalysisproc)=*memory-size***]** **[**[**interactive**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#interactive23-usb-int-danalysisproc)** | ** [**background**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#background24-usb-int-danalysisproc)** | **[**queue**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#queue25-usb-int-danalysisproc)=[*queue-name*][[**after**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#after26-usb-int-danalysisproc)=*time*]**]** **[**[**double**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#double27-usb-int-danalysisproc)=**{**`explicit`** | **`both`** | **`off`** | **`constraint`**}****]** **[**[**scratch**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#scratch28-usb-int-danalysisproc)=*scratch-dir***]** **[**[**output_precision**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#output_precision29-usb-int-danalysisproc)=**{**`single`** | **`full`**}** **]** **[**[**resultsformat**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#resultsformat30-usb-int-danalysisproc)=**{**`odb`** | **`sim`** | **`both`**}** **]** **[**[**field**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#field31-usb-int-danalysisproc)=**{**`odb`** | **`sim`** | **`exodus`** | **`nemesis`**}** **]** **[**[**history**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#history32-usb-int-danalysisproc)=**{**`odb`** | **`sim`** | **`csv`**}** **]** **[**[**port**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#port33-usb-int-danalysisproc)=*co-simulation port-number***]** **[**[**host**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#host34-usb-int-danalysisproc)=*co-simulation hostname***]** **[**[**csedirector**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#csedirector35-usb-int-danalysisproc)=*Co-Simulation Engine director host:port-number***]** **[**[**timeout**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#timeout36-usb-int-danalysisproc)=*co-simulation timeout value in seconds***]** **[**[**unconnected_regions**](pt01ch03s02abx02.md#unconnected_regions37-usb-int-danalysisproc)=**{**`yes`** | **`no`**}****]** |

### Command line options

#### Required option

**job**

The value of this option specifies the name of all files generated during the run and the name of files that are read in the **continue**, **convert**, and **recover** phases.

If this option is omitted from the command line, you will be prompted for its value (except when only the informational options described in ["Obtaining information," Section 3.2.1](pt01ch03s02abx01.md), are used).  If the **input** option is not supplied, the procedure will look for an input file called `*job-name*.inp` in the current directory.

#### Mutually exclusive options that determine which phases of an analysis are performed

All options are order independent. If none of these options is present, the **analysis** option is assumed. The **convert** option is an exception to the mutual exclusion rule: **convert** can appear with any option except **datacheck**, **parametercheck**, **syntaxcheck**, and **information**. The **convert** and **parametercheck** options are not available for Abaqus/CFD.

**analysis**

This option indicates that a complete Abaqus analysis (or a restart of an Abaqus analysis) is to be performed.

**datacheck**

This option indicates that the run is for data checking only. No analysis will be performed. If this option is used, all files necessary to continue the analysis are saved.

**parametercheck**

This option indicates that the run is for input parameter checking only (parameter definitions must have been used; see ["Parametric input," Section 1.4.1](pt01ch01s04aus04.md)). No analysis or data checking will be performed. This option is not applicable for Abaqus/CFD.

**continue**

This option indicates that the run is to begin at the point at which a previous data check run ended.

**convert**

The value of this parameter indicates which files will be postprocessed. This option is not applicable for Abaqus/CFD.

Results can be converted either immediately following an analysis run, as a separate run subsequent to an analysis run, or while an analysis is running as follows: 

1. To run an analysis including a subsequent conversion of the results, use the **convert** option in conjunction with the **job** and **analysis** options.
2. To convert the results of a previously run analysis, use the **convert** option in conjunction with the **job** option.
3. To convert results from a job that is currently running, use the **convert** option in conjunction with the **oldjob** option (to name the running job) and the **job** option (to supply a new name for the files generated by the **convert** option).

If **convert**=`select`, the Abaqus/Explicit selected results file (`*job-name*.sel`) will be converted into a standard Abaqus results file (`*job-name*.fil`). If the analysis is run in parallel with **parallel**=`domain`, the separate selected results files (`*job-name*.sel.*n*`) will be converted into a single selected results file (`*job-name*.sel`) prior to being converted into a standard Abaqus results file.

If **convert**=`odb`, the output database (`*job-name*.odb`) will be converted using the postprocessing calculator (see ["The postprocessing calculator," Section 4.3.1](pt02ch04s03aus42.md)). This conversion is necessary only if the types of output listed in ["The postprocessing calculator," Section 4.3.1](pt02ch04s03aus42.md), are requested.

If **convert**=`state`, the separate Abaqus/Explicit state files (`*job-name*.abq.*n*`) will be converted into a single Abaqus/Explicit state file (`*job-name*.abq`) if the analysis is run in parallel with **parallel**=`domain`.

If **convert**=`all`, all of the applicable convert options will be executed.

**recover**

This option applies only to Abaqus/Explicit. It indicates that an analysis is to be restarted at the last available step and increment in the state file. This capability is available to restart after a catastrophic failure, such as exceeding a CPU limit or a disk quota ( see ["Restarting an analysis," Section 9.1.1](pt04ch09s01aus53.md)). If the original analysis was run in parallel with **parallel**=`domain`, it must be restarted with **parallel**=`domain` and the same number of processors.

**syntaxcheck**

This option indicates that the run is for checking the syntax of the input file only. This option does not use any license tokens. No analysis will be performed, and the **continue** option cannot be used to continue with an analysis. Only the data (`.dat`) and output database (`.odb`) files are generated for viewing. In an Abaqus/Explicit analysis, the model data in the output database may not be complete.

**information**

This option writes information about the installation and the environment that is in effect to the screen or to the file `*job-name*.log`. For output information for each value of this option, see ["Obtaining information," Section 3.2.1](pt01ch03s02abx01.md). If the **information** option is used in conjunction with the **analysis** option, the job must be run in the background to write the information text to the log file.

#### Additional options available for the analysis module

**input**

This option is used to specify the input file name, which may be given with or without the `.inp` extension (if the extension is not supplied, Abaqus will append it automatically). If this option is not supplied, the procedure will look for an input file called `*job-name*.inp` in the current directory. If `*job-name*.inp` cannot be found, the procedure will prompt for the input file name.

**user**

This option specifies the name of a source or object file that contains any user subroutines to be used in the analysis. The name of the user routine may contain a path name and may be given with or without a file extension. Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, and Abaqus/CFD accept user subroutines written in  C, C++, or FORTRAN.

 If an extension is given, the program will take the appropriate action based on the file type. If the file name has no extension, the program will search for a C, C++, or FORTRAN source file. If the source file does not exist, an object file will be searched for instead. The execution procedure creates a shared library using the user subroutine file that is used by the analysis during execution.

If the same user subroutine will be needed often, consider setting the **usub_lib_dir** environment file parameter and using the **abaqus make** execution procedure to create a shared library containing the user subroutine. This will avoid the need to recompile and/or relink the user subroutine each time it is needed. The **user** option is not required if the user subroutine called by the analysis is contained in the user library. User libraries contained in the directory given by the **usub_lib_dir** environment file parameter will not be used if the **user** option is specified.

The **user** option cannot be used to specify an object file when the **double** option is used to run an Abaqus/Explicit analysis because Abaqus/Explicit double precision runs need both single precision and double precision objects. In this case you must set the **usub_lib_dir** environment file parameter and place the single and double precision object files in the specified directory; alternatively, you can supply the user subroutine source.

**oldjob**

This option specifies the name of the files from a previous run from which a restart or postprocessing (Abaqus/Standard only; see ["Recovering additional results output from restart data in Abaqus/Standard" in "Output," Section 4.1.1](pt02ch04s01aus38.md#usb-out-ooutput-postoutput)) run is to be started or from which results are to be imported. A path or file extension is not allowed. This option is required when a restart, postprocessing, symmetric model generation, or import analysis reads data from the restart or the results file. The *oldjob-name* must be different from the current *job-name*.

**fil**

This option specifies whether the data from the old results file specified in a restart run are included at the beginning of the new results file (default). If **fil**=`new` is used, the new results file will contain only the data from the point in the analysis where the restart occurred. This feature is used for Abaqus/Standard runs to join the output from restarted analyses into a single, continuous results file. Non-restart jobs cannot use this feature to append results file output to an old results file; the **abaqus append** execution procedure must be used for this purpose. Setting **fil**=`new` is not allowed for Abaqus/Explicit runs. This option is not applicable for Abaqus/CFD.

**globalmodel**

This option specifies the name of the global model's results file or output database file from which the results are to be interpolated to drive a submodel analysis. This option is required whenever a submodel analysis or submodel boundary condition reads data from the global model's results. The file extension is optional. If both a results file and an output database file exist for the global model and no extension is given, the results file will be used. This option is not applicable for Abaqus/CFD.

**cpus**

This option specifies the number of processors to use during an analysis run if parallel processing is available. The default value for this parameter is 1 and can be changed in the environment file (see ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md)).

**parallel**

This option specifies the method to use for thread-based parallel processing in Abaqus/Explicit. The possible values are `domain` and `loop`. If **parallel**=`domain`, the domain-level method is used to break the model into geometric domains. If **parallel**=`loop`, the loop-level method is used to parallelize low-level loops. See ["Parallel execution in Abaqus/Explicit," Section 3.5.3](pt01ch03s05aus34.md), for more information on these methods. The default value is `domain`, which can be changed in the environment file (see ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md)).

**domains**

This option specifies the number of parallel domains in Abaqus/Explicit. If the value is greater than 1, the domain decomposition will be performed regardless of the values of the **parallel** and **cpus** options. However, if **parallel**=`domain`, the value of **cpus** must be evenly divisible into the value of **domains**. The default value is set equal to the number of processors used during the analysis run if **parallel**=`domain` and 1 if **parallel**=`loop`. The default value can be changed in the environment file (see["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md)). A restart analysis uses the same number of parallel domains as the original analysis, and the value specified with this option will be ignored.

**dynamic_load_balancing**

For domain-parallel execution in Abaqus/Explicit (**parallel**=`domain`) where the number of domains is larger than the number of cpus, this option activates the dynamic load balancing scheme. Abaqus/Explicit will attempt to improve computational efficiency by periodically reassigning domains to processors in a way that minimizes load imbalance (see ["Parallel execution in Abaqus/Explicit," Section 3.5.3](pt01ch03s05aus34.md)).

**mp_mode**

If this option is set equal to `mpi`, the MPI-based parallelization method will be used when applicable. Set **mp_mode**=`threads` to use the thread-based parallelization method. The default value is `mpi` on Windows platforms if MPI components are installed; otherwise, thread-based parallel execution is the default behavior. On all other platforms, the default value is `mpi`. The default setting can be changed in the environment file (see ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md)). For Abaqus/CFD only **mp_mode**=`mpi` can be used.

**standard_parallel**

This option specifies the parallel execution mode in Abaqus/Standard. The possible values are `all` and `solver`. If **standard_parallel**=`all`, both the element operations and the solver will run in parallel. If **standard_parallel**=`solver`, only the solver will run in parallel. The default value is **standard_parallel**=`all` on platforms where MPI-based parallelization is supported.

The parallel execution mode can also be set in the environment file (see ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md)).

**gpus**

This option specifies acceleration of the Abaqus/Standard direct solver. This option is meaningful only on computers equipped with appropriate GPGPU hardware. By default, GPGPU solver acceleration is not activated. The value of this parameter is the number of GPGPUs to be used in an Abaqus/Standard analysis. In an MPI-based analysis, this is the number of GPGPUs to be used on each host.

GPGPU-based solver acceleration can also be set in the environment file (see ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md)).

**memory**

Maximum amount of memory or maximum percentage of the physical memory that can be allocated during the input file preprocessing and during the Abaqus/Standard analysis phase (see ["Managing memory and disk use in Abaqus," Section 3.4.1](pt01ch03s04aus31.md)). The default values can be changed in the environment file (see ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md)). This option is not applicable for Abaqus/CFD.

**interactive**

This option will cause the job to run interactively. For Abaqus/Standard and Abaqus/CFD the log file will be output to the screen; for Abaqus/Explicit the status file and the log file will be output to the screen. The default **run_mode** can be set in the environment file (see ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md)).

**background**

This option will submit the job to run in the background, which is the default. Log file output will be saved in the file `*job-name*.log` in the current directory. The default method for submitting the job can be set in the environment file by using the **run_mode** parameter (see ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md)).

**queue**

This option will submit the job to a batch queue. If the option appears with no value, the job will be submitted to the system default queue. Quoted strings are allowed. The available queues are site specific. Contact your site administrator to find out more about local queuing capabilities. Use **information**=`local` to see what local queuing capabilities have been installed. The default method for submitting the job can be set in the environment file by using the **run_mode** parameter (see ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md)).

**after**

This option is used in conjunction with the **queue** option to specify the time at which the job will start in the selected batch queue. This capability is supported for each individual site through the Abaqus environment file. (See the [Abaqus Installation and Licensing Guide](../sgb/sgb-link.md#sgb) for details.)

**double**

This option is used to specify that the double precision executable is to be used for Abaqus/Explicit. The possible values are `both`, `constraint`, `explicit`, and `off`. This capability is also supported through the Abaqus environment file with the environment variable **double_precision** (see ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md)). 

If **double**=`both`, both the Abaqus/Explicit packager and analysis will run in double precision. 

If **double**=`constraint`, the constraint packaging and constraint solver in Abaqus/Explicit will run in double precision, while the Abaqus/Explicit packager and Abaqus/Explicit analysis continue to run in single precision.

If **double**=`explicit`, the Abaqus/Explicit analysis will run in double precision, while the packager will still run in single precision. The default value is `explicit`.

If **double**=`off`, the environment file setting is overridden if necessary to invoke both the Abaqus/Explicit packager and Abaqus/Explicit analysis in single precision. For a discussion of when to use the double precision executable, see ["Defining an analysis," Section 6.1.2](pt03ch06s01abo05.md).

**scratch**

This option is used to specify the name of the directory used for scratch files. On UNIX platforms the default value is the value of the `$TMPDIR` environment variable or `/tmp` if `$TMPDIR` is not defined. On Windows platforms the default value is the value of the `%TEMP%` environment variable or `\TEMP` if this variable is not defined. During the analysis a subdirectory will be created under this directory to hold the analysis scratch files. The default value for this parameter can be set in the environment file (see ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md)).

**output_precision**

This option specifies the precision of the nodal field output written to the output database file (`*job-name*.odb`). Using **output_precision**=`full` results in double precision field output for Abaqus/Standard analyses. To obtain double precision field output for Abaqus/Explicit analyses, use the ** double** option in addition to using **output_precision**=`full`. Nodal history output is available only in single precision. This option cannot be used with the **recover** option.

**resultsformat**

This option specifies the output format of the results. If **resultsformat**=`odb`, the output is written in ODB format only. If **resultsformat**=`sim`, the output is written in SIM format only. If **resultsformat**=`both`, the output is written in both ODB and SIM formats. The default value is `odb`. For more information, see ["The output database" in "Output," Section 4.1.1](pt02ch04s01aus38.md#usb-out-ooutput-formats). This option is not applicable for Abaqus/CFD.

**field**

This option specifies the format of field output for Abaqus/CFD. If **field**=`odb`, field output is written in ODB format. If **field**=`sim`, field output is written in SIM format. If **field**=`exodus`, the field output is written to files in EXODUS-II format, one file per processor. To obtain a single file for parallel execution, use **field**=`nemesis`; the file is written in EXODUS-II format using the NEMESIS library. The default value is `odb`. For more information, see ["Alternate output formats in Abaqus/CFD" in "Output," Section 4.1.1](pt02ch04s01aus38.md#usb-out-ooutput-alternate).

**history**

This option specifies the format of history output for Abaqus/CFD. If **history**=`odb`, history output is written in ODB format. If **history**=`sim`, history output is written in SIM format. If **history**=`csv`, history output is written to a file in comma-separated values format. 

The default value depends on the setting for the **field** option. When **field**=`odb`, the default is **history**=`odb`. When **field**=`sim`, the default is **history**=`sim`. When **field**=`exodus` or `nemesis`, the default is **history**=`csv`. For more information, see ["Alternate output formats in Abaqus/CFD" in "Output," Section 4.1.1](pt02ch04s01aus38.md#usb-out-ooutput-alternate).

**port**

This option is used to specify the TCP/UDP port number for co-simulation between solvers using the direct coupling interface, which includes co-simulation between Abaqus and certain third-party analysis programs. Set **port** equal to the port number used for the connection. The default value is `48000`. The default port number that Abaqus uses to initiate communication can be set with the **cosimulation_port** parameter in the environment file (see ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md)). This option is used in conjunction with the **host** option. For more information, see ["Selecting TCP/UDP port numbers" in "Execution procedure for Abaqus: overview," Section 3.1.1](pt01ch03s01abo02.md#usb-int-doverview-port).

**host**

This option is used to specify the host name for co-simulation between solvers using the direct coupling interface, which includes co-simulation between Abaqus and certain third-party analysis programs. This option specifies the name of the machine that is hosting the connection. Refer to the third-party program documentation to determine if the **host** option is required. This option is used in conjunction with the **port** option.

**csedirector**

This option is used to specify the connection (e.g., host:port) for the SIMULIA Co-Simulation Engine director process when performing a co-simulation using the SIMULIA Co-Simulation Engine. The **csedirector** entry identifies the host name and the TCP/UDP port number for the listening port of the SIMULIA Co-Simulation Engine director process.

**timeout**

This option is used to specify a timeout value in seconds for establishing the co-simulation connection using the direct coupling interface or the SIMULIA Co-Simulation Engine. Abaqus terminates if it does not receive any communication from the coupled analysis program during the time specified. The default value is 3600 seconds. The default timeout value that Abaqus uses can be set with the **cosimulation_timeout** parameter in the environment file when using the direct coupling interface (see ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md)).

#### Additional option available for the datacheck module

**unconnected_regions**

This option is used to request that Abaqus/Standard create element and node sets for unconnected regions in the analysis output database. Set **unconnected_regions**=`yes` to create element and node sets that are named MESH COMPONENT  *N*, where *N* is the component number.

### Examples

The following examples illustrate the different functions and capabilities of the **abaqus** execution procedure.

#### Running analyses in Abaqus/Standard

Use the following command to run a heat transfer analysis called “c8” in the background:

```
abaqus analysis job=c8 background
```

The following command will run the job c8 in the background and output the current environment settings to the log file: 
```
abaqus analysis job=c8 information=environment background
```

The follow-up analysis to the heat transfer analysis c8 is “c10,” which is a static analysis that uses temperature data from c8 as input. The temperature data are read in from the c8 results file as predefined fields. The execution procedure scans the Abaqus/Standard input file for file dependencies of this sort. In this example the procedure will look for the c8 results file in the current directory with the extension `.fil`. The results file identifier can include a path name (see ["Input syntax rules," Section 1.2.1](pt01ch01s02aus01.md)), and the execution procedure will then look in the directory specified. In either case an error message will be issued if the file does not exist. The following command is used to run the job c10 in the “long” queue: 
```
abaqus analysis job=c10 queue=long
```

This job is next restarted as “c11,” using the final results from c10 as the starting point for a creep analysis. The following command is used to run this job in the default queue: 
```
abaqus analysis job=c11 oldjob=c10 queue=
```

The following command is used to run an Abaqus/Standard analysis called “draw_imp” that imports the results from a previously run Abaqus/Explicit analysis called “draw_exp”: 
```
abaqus analysis job=draw_imp oldjob=draw_exp
```

#### Running analyses in Abaqus/Explicit

Use the following command to submit an Abaqus/Explicit analysis called “beam” to the default queue:

```
abaqus analysis job=beam convert=all queue=
```

Equivalent results would be obtained from the following series of commands: 
```
abaqus datacheck job=beam interactive
abaqus continue job=beam queue=
abaqus convert=all job=beam interactive
```

Note that the CPU-intensive analysis option is run in batch, while the other options are run interactively. 

#### Running analyses in Abaqus/CFD

Use the following command to submit an Abaqus/CFD analysis called “cylinder” using 128 cores in parallel:

```
abaqus analysis job=cylinder cpus=128
```

#### Running different phases of an analysis

Use the following command to perform a parameter check run on an input file called “parmodel”:

```
abaqus job=parmodel parametercheck
```

Use the following command to perform a data check run on an input file called “parmodel” (the parameter check is done again if this job is run after the previous one):
```
abaqus job=parmodel datacheck
```

The following command will continue the previous **datacheck** job to execute the analysis:
```
abaqus job=parmodel continue
```




