# 3.2.21 Joining output database (.odb) files from restarted analyses







### 3.2.21 Joining output database (`.odb`) files from restarted analyses

**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

##### **References**

- ["Execution procedure for Abaqus: overview," Section 3.1.1](pt01ch03s01abo02.md)
- ["Continuation of output upon restart" in "Restarting an analysis," Section 9.1.1](pt04ch09s01aus53.md#usb-anl-arestart-continue)

### Overview

The **abaqus restartjoin** utility appends an output database (`.odb`) file produced by a restart analysis of a model to the output database produced by the original analysis of that model. Combining the original and restart output database files into a single file enables you to examine all of the output data for the analysis in Abaqus/CAE.

A similar utility, **abaqus append**, is used to join results (`.fil`) files. See ["Joining results (`.fil`) files," Section 3.2.14](pt01ch03s02abx14.md), for details.

### Appending data when the analysis restarts between steps versus midstep

You can append output database files from analyses that restart between steps and from analyses that restart in the middle of a step. While the required syntax is the same for these two types of analyses, Abaqus appends data differently, as follows:
- For an analysis that stops and restarts between steps, Abaqus simply appends the output from the new steps to the output from the existing steps of the original analysis.
- For an analysis that stops and restarts in the middle of a step, the original and restart analyses overlap because the restart analysis resumes at the beginning of the interrupted step. In this case the **abaqus restartjoin** utility retains the results for any completed steps in the original analysis but replaces the results for the interrupted step with the output data produced by the restart analysis.

### Customizing the combined output database file

By default, Abaqus appends the output data produced by the restart analysis directly to the original output database file. If you prefer to retain the original output database file, you can create a copy of it and append the restart analysis output data to the copy instead. Abaqus names this copy using the format `Restart_*original-odb-filename*`; for example, a copy of the original output database file `job–1.odb` would be named `Restart_job-1.odb`. 

Abaqus omits history data when you combine original and restart output databases; however, you can override this default. You can also control whether Abaqus compresses the combined output database file.

### Command summary

| **abaqus restartjoin** | [**originalodb**](pt01ch03s02abx21.md#originalodb1-usb-int-drestartjoinproc)=*odb-file-name* |
| --- | --- |
|  | [**restartodb**](pt01ch03s02abx21.md#restartodb2-usb-int-drestartjoinproc)=*odb-file-name* **[**[**copyoriginal**](pt01ch03s02abx21.md#copyoriginal3-usb-int-drestartjoinproc)**]** **[**[**history**](pt01ch03s02abx21.md#history4-usb-int-drestartjoinproc)**]** **[**[**compressresult**](pt01ch03s02abx21.md#compressresult5-usb-int-drestartjoinproc)**]** |

### Command line options

**originalodb**

This option specifies the output database file produced by the original analysis. If you omit the **copyoriginal** option, Abaqus appends the output data from the restart output database file directly to the original output database file.

If you omit this option from the command line, Abaqus will prompt you for its value.

**restartodb**

This option specifies the output database file produced by the restart analysis. You can specify only one restart analysis output database file at a time.

If you omit this option from the command line, Abaqus will prompt you for its value.

**copyoriginal**

If this option is specified, Abaqus creates a copy of the output database file specified by the **originalodb** option and appends the contents of the **restartodb** output database file to that copy instead of to the original file. When this option is omitted, Abaqus appends the output data from the restart analysis directly to the original output database file.

Abaqus names the copied output database file by adding the prefix `Restart_` to the name of the original output database file; for example, a copy of the original output database file `original.odb` would be named `Restart_original.odb`. 

**history**

If this option is specified, Abaqus copies history data from the restart output database to the original output database or its copy. Abaqus omits history data in the joined output database file unless you specify this option.

**compressresult**

If this option is specified, Abaqus compresses the resulting output database file.

### Examples

If your model produced an initial output database file named `Job-1.odb` and a restart output database file named `Job-1_res.odb`, issue the following command to append the contents of the restart database to the initial output database file:

```
abaqus restartjoin originalodb=Job-1.odb restartodb=Job-1_res.odb
```

If you prefer to retain the original output database file, you can create a copy of this original file and append the contents of the restart output database file to the copy instead. Abaqus creates the name of the copied output database file by adding the prefix `Restart_` to the name of the original file; in the preceding example the copy of the original file `Job-1.odb` would be named `Restart_Job-1.odb`. To perform the restart join operation using a copy of the original file, issue the following command:
```
abaqus restartjoin originalodb=Job-1.odb restartodb=Job-1_res.odb
   copyoriginal
```

By default, Abaqus does not copy history data to the combined output database. To include history data, issue the following command:
```
abaqus restartjoin originalodb=Job-1.odb restartodb=Job-1_res.odb
   history
```




