# 3.2.3 SIMULIA Co-Simulation Engine director execution







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  Abaqus/CFD  

##### **Reference**

- ["Execution procedure for Abaqus: overview," Section 3.1.1](pt01ch03s01abo02.md)

### Overview

Co-simulation between Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, and Abaqus/CFD is governed by an additional process, the SIMULIA Co-Simulation Engine (CSE) director. Typically, you are not required to invoke the CSE director process; it is invoked automatically when you run the Abaqus co-simulation procedure (["Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, and Abaqus/CFD co-simulation execution," Section 3.2.4](pt01ch03s02abx04.md)) or if you submit the co-simulation from Abaqus/CAE.

If you are unable to use the Abaqus co-simulation procedure or Abaqus/CAE and are required to submit the co-simulation analyses separately using the Abaqus execution procedure (["Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, and Abaqus/CFD execution," Section 3.2.2](pt01ch03s02abx02.md)), you must invoke the CSE director as described in this section.

### Command summary

| **abaqus cse** | [**job**](pt01ch03s02abx03.md#job1-usb-int-dcosimcontrolproc)=*cosim-job-name* |
| --- | --- |
|  | [**configure**](pt01ch03s02abx03.md#configure2-usb-int-dcosimcontrolproc)=*configuration file-name* [**listenerport**](pt01ch03s02abx03.md#listenerport3-usb-int-dcosimcontrolproc)=*listener port-number* **[**[**datacheck**](pt01ch03s02abx03.md#datacheck4-usb-int-dcosimcontrolproc)**]** **[**[**interactive**](pt01ch03s02abx03.md#interactive5-usb-int-dcosimcontrolproc)**]** **[**[**timeout**](pt01ch03s02abx03.md#timeout6-usb-int-dcosimcontrolproc)=*timeout value in seconds***]** |

### Command line options

**job**

The value of this option specifies the name of the co-simulation summary log file generated during the run. If this option is omitted from the command line, you will be prompted for its value.

**configure**

This option specifies the name of the SIMULIA Co-Simulation Engine configuration file that governs the co-simulation. For more information, see ["Using the SIMULIA Co-Simulation Engine configuration file" in "Preparing an Abaqus analysis for co-simulation," Section 17.2.1](pt04ch17s02aus98.md#usb-anl-acosimulationprep-config-file).

**listenerport**

This option is used to specify the TCP/UDP port number for co-simulation inbound messages to the director. Set **listenerport** equal to the port number used for the connection.

**datacheck**

This option causes the director to check the correctness of the configuration file only.

**interactive**

This option causes the director to run interactively.

**timeout**

This option is used to specify a timeout value in seconds for the co-simulation director connection. The director terminates if it does not receive any communication from the coupled analysis program during the time specified. The default value is 3600 seconds.

### Example

The following example illustrates the different functions and capabilities of the co-simulation director execution procedure when you are required to submit the co-simulation analyses separately.

#### Running an Abaqus/Standard to Abaqus/Explicit co-simulation

Use the following command for the first Abaqus analysis, running on machine “earth,” to connect to the co-simulation director, running on machine “mercury” and listening on port 44444:

```
abaqus job=explicit csedirector=mercury:44444
```

Use the following command for the second Abaqus analysis, running on machine “venus,” to connect to the co-simulation director, running on machine “mercury” and listening on port 44444:
```
abaqus job=standard csedirector=mercury:44444
```

Use the following command for the co-simulation director, running on machine “mercury,” to operate according to the co-simulation configuration defined in the file `explicit_standard_config.xml` and to receive communication via port 44444:
```
abaqus cse job=cosim listenerport=44444
   configure=explicit_standard_config.xml
```




