# 4.3.1 The postprocessing calculator







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

##### **References**

- ["Output to the output database," Section 4.1.3](pt02ch04s01aus40.md)
- ["Abaqus/Standard output variable identifiers," Section 4.2.1](pt02ch04s02abv01.md)
- ["Abaqus/Explicit output variable identifiers," Section 4.2.2](pt02ch04s02xbv01.md)
- ["Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, and Abaqus/CFD execution," Section 3.2.2](pt01ch03s02abx02.md)

### Overview

The postprocessing calculator can perform operations on output quantities written to the output database (`*job-name*.odb`) by Abaqus. It then expands the output database by writing these new output quantities to the output database. Once this expansion is done, it is not possible to convert the output database back to its original form. The postprocessing calculator is for use only with the Visualization module of Abaqus/CAE (Abaqus/Viewer). 

### Functionality of the calculator

The postprocessing calculator performs the following calculations on data written to the output database:
- Extrapolation of integration point quantities to the nodes or interpolation of integration point quantities to the centroid of an element, according to the user-specified position for element output; see ["Selecting the position of element integration point and section point output" in "Output to the output database," Section 4.1.3](pt02ch04s01aus40.md#usb-out-odboutput-elem-position), for details.
- Calculation of history output at tracer particles; see ["Tracer particle output from Abaqus/Explicit" in "Output to the output database," Section 4.1.3](pt02ch04s01aus40.md#usb-out-odboutput-tracerparticle).

### Running the calculator

By default, the postprocessing calculator will run automatically upon the completion of an analysis. During the execution of the analysis, Abaqus will determine if there are keywords in the input file that require the use of the calculator and will initiate the calculator upon completion if it is required. You can override this default behavior by using the environment variable **auto_calculate** in the Abaqus environment file. See ["Using the Abaqus environment settings," Section 3.3.1](pt01ch03s03aus30.md), for details.

You can run the postprocessing calculator manually by using the **convert**=`odb` option on the **abaqus** execution procedure.

To see the postprocessed results before an analysis is complete, you can run the postprocessing calculator manually while the analysis is still running, using the **oldjob** option in conjunction with the **convert**=`odb` option on the **abaqus** execution procedure. The postprocessing calculator will write a new output database using the value of the **job** parameter as the file name. Due to the fact that the analysis is writing to the output database at the same time the postprocessing calculator is attempting to read it, the output database may be in an inconsistent state that makes reading it impossible. If this problem occurs, the postprocessing calculator will stop attempting to read the output database and exit. A warning message explaining what has happened will be output to the screen. You can then attempt to run the postprocessing calculator again. If the inconsistent state has cleared, the postprocessing calculator will run normally.

If the postprocessing calculator is run during an analysis without the **oldjob** option, Abaqus will ask you to confirm that the existing output database can be overwritten. You should make sure the analysis is complete before running the postprocessing calculator manually without the **oldjob** option. If the analysis is still running when the postprocessing calculator is run without using the **oldjob** option, the output database will be corrupted.

For a detailed description of the procedure for running the postprocessing calculator manually, see ["Abaqus/Standard, Abaqus/Explicit, and Abaqus/CFD execution," Section 3.2.2](pt01ch03s02abx02.md).

If an analysis aborts because available CPU time has expired and you restart the analysis, the postprocessing calculator will not automatically expand the output database from the original, aborted run. You must manually run the postprocessing calculator to expand the original output database using the procedure outlined above.




