# 20.2.1 aStudy.combine()







### 20.2.1 ***aStudy*.combine()**: Combine parameter samples for parametric studies.

**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

This command is used to combine the sampled parameter values in a parametric study.

##### **Reference**

- ["Scripting parametric studies," Section 20.1.1](pt04ch20s01aus108.md)

### **Command: **

***aStudy*.combine** (*token*, *additional data*)

### **Tokens: **

CROSS

Use this token to create designs in a “cross-shaped” pattern from the sampled values of the parameters in the parametric study.

MESH

Use this token to create designs in a “mesh” pattern in which every sampled value of a parameter is combined with every sampled value of every other parameter in the parametric study.

PRINT

Use this token to print the design points created for the parametric study.

TUPLE

Use this token to create designs in a “tuple” pattern consisting of tuples of sampled values of the parameters in the parametric study. 

##### **Additional data for CROSS, MESH, and TUPLE: **

### **Optional data: **

**name**

Set **name** equal to the name of the design set being defined; this name must be enclosed by quotation marks. A default design set name is created if a name is not specified.

##### **Additional data for PRINT: **

### **Optional data: **

**name**

Set **name** equal to the name of the design set for which information is being printed; this name must be enclosed by quotation marks. If a design set name is not specified, information is printed for all the design sets in the parametric study.




