# 1.6.27 Surface-to-surface approach for finite-sliding contact







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

C3D4    C3D8    CPE4H    CPE8H    GK3D6    S4R5    CGAX3T    STRI65    

S4R    B31    C3D8R    

### Feature tested

Surface-to-surface contact with finite sliding.

### Problem description

This section deals with finite-sliding surface-to-surface contact involving stress/displacement elements. The tests utilize different surface behavior and surface interactions with the surface-to-surface approach for modeling finite-sliding contact. The tests also illustrate examples in which different facet types are involved for master and slave surfaces.

### Results and discussion

These results illustrate the accuracy and the robustness of the surface-to-surface formulation for finite-sliding contact.

### Input files

#### Slider example:

[slider_cpe4h_surf.inp](../eif/slider_cpe4h_surf.inp)

CPE4H elements modeling a slider with surface-to-surface contact.

[slider_cpe8h_mpc_surf.inp](../eif/slider_cpe8h_mpc_surf.inp)

CPE8H elements modeling a slider with surface-to-surface contact.

[gasket_surf.inp](../eif/gasket_surf.inp)

GK3D6 elements contacting a slider using surface-to-surface contact.

[slide-shells_surf.inp](../eif/slide-shells_surf.inp)

STRI65 elements modeling a slider with surface-to-surface contact.

[edg1s4r5_surf.inp](../eif/edg1s4r5_surf.inp)

S4R5 elements modeling a slider with surface-to-surface contact.

#### Examples for facet type of the master surface different from the slave:

[beam-shell_surf.inp](../eif/beam-shell_surf.inp)

Beam with B31 elements sliding on a shell surface with S4R elements modeled using surface-to-surface contact.

[slide-shell-on-solid_surf.inp](../eif/slide-shell-on-solid_surf.inp)

S4R slider in contact with C3D8R element-based surface modeled using surface-to-surface contact.

#### Compressing and twisting one three-dimensional block on another:

[block_c3d4_a_surf.inp](../eif/block_c3d4_a_surf.inp)

C3D4 elements using surface-to-surface contact.

[block_c3d4_b_surf.inp](../eif/block_c3d4_b_surf.inp)

C3D4 elements using surface-to-surface contact and the unsymmetric solver to handle additional compression.

[block_c3d8_a_surf.inp](../eif/block_c3d8_a_surf.inp)

C3D8 elements using surface-to-surface contact.

[block_c3d8_b_surf.inp](../eif/block_c3d8_b_surf.inp)

C3D8 elements using surface-to-surface contact and the unsymmetric solver to handle additional compression.

#### Examples using the "path-based" tracking algorithm:

[rollcyl_test.inp](../eif/rollcyl_test.inp)

Paper rolling model using double-sided shell and discrete rigid surfaces.

[block_c3d8_b_surf_ntrack.inp](../eif/block_c3d8_b_surf_ntrack.inp)

Compressed and twisted blocks.




