# 1.7.3 Coupled thermal-electrical surface interaction







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

DC2D4E    DC2D8E    DC3D8E    DC3D20E    DCAX4E    DCAX8E    

### Features tested

Contact pair

Gap conductance

Gap electrical conductance

Gap heat generation

Gap radiation

### Problem description

A solid material is placed near a heat source whose temperature and electrical potential remain constant. Heat transfer across the gap between the solid body and the heat source can take place via gap conductance or gap radiation (thus, there are two tests for each element type). Electrical current is conducted between the two closely adjacent surfaces forming the gap. Half of the electrical energy resulting from this conductance is released as heat and is distributed equally to the two adjacent surfaces. No Joule heating occurs in the model as a result of electrical conduction; therefore, electrical energy does not act as an internal heat source within the continuum elements. For simplicity we initiate a unidirectional heat flow and current in the solid by applying a higher temperature and electrical potential to the face farthest from the heat source. The steady-state temperatures and electrical potentials of the solid face closest to the heat source are verified with the analytical solution.

**Model: **

| Element size | 1 unit in each direction |
| --- | --- |
| Inner radius of axisymmetric solids | 10.0 |

**Material: **

| Thermal conductivity in solid | 1.0 |
| --- | --- |
| Electrical conductivity in solid | 1.0 |
| Gap thermal conductance | 10.0 |
| Gap electrical conductance | 10.0 |
| Gap heat generation | 0.5 |
| Radiation constants of surfaces | 5 1010 |
| Joule heat fraction | 0.0 |

### Results and discussion

The steady-state temperatures and electrical potentials agree with the analytical, one-dimensional coupled thermal-electrical results.

### Input files

#### Gap conductance tests:

[ei22vsjc.inp](../eif/ei22vsjc.inp)

DC2D4E elements.

[ei23vsjc.inp](../eif/ei23vsjc.inp)

DC2D8E elements.

[ei34vsjc.inp](../eif/ei34vsjc.inp)

DC3D8E elements.

[ei38vsjc.inp](../eif/ei38vsjc.inp)

DC3D20E elements.

[eia2vsjc.inp](../eif/eia2vsjc.inp)

DCAX4E elements.

[eia3vsjc.inp](../eif/eia3vsjc.inp)

DCAX8E elements.

#### Gap radiation tests:

[ei22vsjr.inp](../eif/ei22vsjr.inp)

DC2D4E elements.

[ei23vsjr.inp](../eif/ei23vsjr.inp)

DC2D8E elements.

[ei34vsjr.inp](../eif/ei34vsjr.inp)

DC3D8E elements.

[ei38vsjr.inp](../eif/ei38vsjr.inp)

DC3D20E elements.

[eia2vsjr.inp](../eif/eia2vsjr.inp)

DCAX4E elements.

[eia3vsjr.inp](../eif/eia3vsjr.inp)

DCAX8E elements.




