# 1.6.21 Contact surface extensions







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

C3D8    C3D10    C3D10I    C3D20    CPE3    CPE4    CPE6    CPE8    ISL21A    ISL22A    

### Features tested

Contact surface and slide line extensions for small- and finite-sliding.

### Problem description

In small-sliding contact extending the master surface allows the slave node to find an intersection with the master surface when the slave node lies slightly outside the perimeter of the master surface at the start of the analysis. The small-sliding models consist of a stacked block arrangement in which the nodes of the slave surface extend beyond the perimeter of the master surface at the start of the analysis.

In finite-sliding contact extending the master surface can prevent nodes from “falling-off” or getting trapped behind the master surface. The finite-sliding models are similar to the small-sliding models, except that the slave surface lies within the perimeter of the master surface at the start of the analysis. A second step moves the slave surface beyond the perimeter of the master surface but within the extension zone.

**Material: **

| Young's modulus | 3.0 106 |
| --- | --- |
| Poisson's ratio | 0.2 |

### Results and discussion

The small-sliding tests verify that an intersection is found and that the proper contact clearance is calculated at the start of an analysis.

The contact clearances, slip distances, and contact pressures are used to verify the finite-sliding results when a slave node enters the extension region.

### Input files

[ei38sfsx.inp](../eif/ei38sfsx.inp)

C3D8 elements, finite-sliding.

[ei38sisx.inp](../eif/ei38sisx.inp)

C3D8 elements, small-sliding.

[ei38sisx_surf.inp](../eif/ei38sisx_surf.inp)

C3D8 elements, small-sliding, surface-to-surface constraint enforcement method.

[ei3tsfsx.inp](../eif/ei3tsfsx.inp)

C3D10 elements, finite-sliding.

[ei3tsisx.inp](../eif/ei3tsisx.inp)

C3D10 elements, small-sliding.

[ei3tsisx_surf.inp](../eif/ei3tsisx_surf.inp)

C3D10 elements, small-sliding, surface-to-surface constraint enforcement method.

[ei3tsfsx_c3d10i.inp](../eif/ei3tsfsx_c3d10i.inp)

C3D10I elements, finite-sliding.

[ei3tsisx_c3d10i.inp](../eif/ei3tsisx_c3d10i.inp)

C3D10I elements, small-sliding.

[ei3tsisx_surf_c3d10i.inp](../eif/ei3tsisx_surf_c3d10i.inp)

C3D10I elements, small-sliding, surface-to-surface constraint enforcement method.

[ei3ssfsx.inp](../eif/ei3ssfsx.inp)

C3D20 elements, finite-sliding.

[ei3ssisx.inp](../eif/ei3ssisx.inp)

C3D20 elements, small-sliding.

[ei3ssisx_surf.inp](../eif/ei3ssisx_surf.inp)

C3D20 elements, small-sliding, surface-to-surface constraint enforcement method.

[ei23sfsx.inp](../eif/ei23sfsx.inp)

CPE3 elements, finite-sliding.

[ei23sisx.inp](../eif/ei23sisx.inp)

CPE3 elements, small-sliding.

[ei23sisx_surf.inp](../eif/ei23sisx_surf.inp)

CPE3 elements, small-sliding, surface-to-surface constraint enforcement method.

[ei24sfsx.inp](../eif/ei24sfsx.inp)

CPE4 elements, finite-sliding.

[ei24sisx.inp](../eif/ei24sisx.inp)

CPE4 elements, small-sliding.

[ei24sisx_surf.inp](../eif/ei24sisx_surf.inp)

CPE4 elements, small-sliding, surface-to-surface constraint enforcement method.

[ei26sfsx.inp](../eif/ei26sfsx.inp)

CPE6 elements, finite-sliding.

[ei26sisx.inp](../eif/ei26sisx.inp)

CPE6 elements, small-sliding.

[ei26sisx_surf.inp](../eif/ei26sisx_surf.inp)

CPE6 elements, small-sliding, surface-to-surface constraint enforcement method.

[ei28sfsx.inp](../eif/ei28sfsx.inp)

CPE8 elements, finite-sliding.

[ei28sisx.inp](../eif/ei28sisx.inp)

CPE8 elements, small-sliding.

[ei28sisx_surf.inp](../eif/ei28sisx_surf.inp)

CPE8 elements, small-sliding, surface-to-surface constraint enforcement method.

[ei21sfix.inp](../eif/ei21sfix.inp)

ISL21A elements.

[ei22sfix.inp](../eif/ei22sfix.inp)

ISL22A elements.




