# 1.11.10 Mass adjust verification







**Product: **Abaqus/Explicit  

### I. Use of mass adjust to define the total mass of an element set

### Elements tested

B21    B22    B31    B32    PIPE21    PIPE31    

C3D4    C3D6    C3D8    C3D8R    SC6R    SC8R    

CAX3    CAX4R    

CPE3    CPE4R    CPS3    CPS4R    

M3D3    M3D4R    

S3R    S4    S4R    SAX1    

T2D2    T3D2    

### Problem description

 Using mass adjustment to define the total mass of an element set in a model is tested. The analyses consist of a set of reference elements and another set of test elements whose material density is different from that of the reference elements. Mass adjustment is applied to the test elements to make the total mass equal those of the reference elements. The response of the test elements should be identical to that of the reference elements. Several element types are tested in each input file, with two elements in the model for each element type. Each element pair is subjected to equivalent displacements (and rotations in the case of beams and shells) such that their response is dynamic. Tests of membranes and shells are performed with and without the specification of nodal thickness. The reaction forces for the constrained nodes of each pair of elements are output for comparison purposes.

### Results and discussion

Reaction forces for nodes on each pair of test and reference elements are nearly identical. 

### Input files

[massadjust_tot_continuum.inp](../eif/massadjust_tot_continuum.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit analysis of two-dimensional and three-dimensional continuum elements.

[massadjust_tot_beamshell.inp](../eif/massadjust_tot_beamshell.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit analysis of two-dimensional and three-dimensional beams and shells.

### II. Use of mass adjust to redistribute element masses to satisfy the minimum element stable time increment requirement

### Elements tested

C3D8    C3D8R    S3R    S4R     

### Problem description

Using mass adjustment to define the total mass of an element set is tested, with redistribution of the element masses to satisfy the minimum stable element time increment requirement. A circular plate subject to blast loading is considered for the test. Considering symmetry, a quarter of the plate is meshed with square elements in an inner region and non-square elements in the outer region. The elements in the inner region are smaller in size than those in the outer region and have a lower material density. In a reference analysis, fixed mass scaling is specified and the mass addition in the inner region due to mass scaling is noted. There is no mass scaling in the outer region. In the test, first the mass of the outer region is adjusted to include the additional mass of the inner region noted in the reference analysis. Next, the mass of the whole model is adjusted to the total mass (including mass scaling) of the whole model of the reference, with the same minimum element stable time increment used for mass scaling. Thus, in the test analysis, the mass added to the outer region from the first mass adjust data entry will be redistributed in its entirety to the inner region as a result of the second. The resulting masses of the inner and outer regions in the test should be identical to those in the reference. The dynamic response of the test should also be the same as the reference.

### Results and discussion

The masses of the element sets are output to the printed output (`.dat`) file using a model definition data request. The results of the test match those of the reference analysis. 

### Input files

[massadjust_dt_c3d8_plate.inp](../eif/massadjust_dt_c3d8_plate.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit analysis using C3D8 elements and mass adjustment to impose minimum stable element time increment.

[massadjust_dt_c3d8_plate_ref.inp](../eif/massadjust_dt_c3d8_plate_ref.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit analysis using C3D8 elements and fixed mass scaling to impose minimum stable element time increment.

[massadjust_dt_c3d8r_plate.inp](../eif/massadjust_dt_c3d8r_plate.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit analysis using C3D8R elements and mass adjustment to impose minimum stable element time increment.

[massadjust_dt_c3d8r_plate_ref.inp](../eif/massadjust_dt_c3d8r_plate_ref.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit analysis using C3D8R elements and fixed mass scaling to impose minimum stable element time increment.

[massadjust_dt_s3r_plate.inp](../eif/massadjust_dt_s3r_plate.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit analysis using S3R elements and mass adjustment to impose minimum stable element time increment.

[massadjust_dt_s3r_plate_ref.inp](../eif/massadjust_dt_s3r_plate_ref.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit analysis using S3R elements and fixed mass scaling to impose minimum stable element time increment.

[massadjust_dt_s4r_plate.inp](../eif/massadjust_dt_s4r_plate.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit analysis using S4R  elements and mass adjustment to impose minimum stable element time increment.

[massadjust_dt_s4r_plate_ref.inp](../eif/massadjust_dt_s4r_plate_ref.inp)

Abaqus/Explicit analysis using S4R  elements and fixed mass scaling to impose minimum stable element time increment.




