# 3.5.10 Substructures with rebar







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

CAX4    MAX1    MAX2    MGAX1    MGAX2    SAX1    SAX2    SFMAX1    SFMAX2    

SFMGAX1    SFMGAX2    

### Feature tested

Rebar in substructures.

### Problem description

Generation files [psupreb1_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb1_gen1.inp), [psupreb2_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb2_gen1.inp), [psupreb3_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb3_gen1.inp), and [psupreb4_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb4_gen1.inp) are made up of single elements, with each element being treated as a substructure for the purposes of this problem. For the hoop tests a substructure load case is used to define a pressure load acting on the surface of the shell, and a uniform pressure is subsequently applied at the usage level. For the radial rebar tests a substructure load case is used to define a concentrated load, and it is applied at the usage level at the outer edge of the shell.

Generation files [psupreb5_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb5_gen1.inp), [psupreb6_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb6_gen1.inp), [psupreb7_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb7_gen1.inp), [psupreb8_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb8_gen1.inp), [psupreb10_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb10_gen1.inp), [psupreb11_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb11_gen1.inp), [psupreb12_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb12_gen1.inp), and [psupreb13_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb13_gen1.inp) are made up of five elements each, all five elements being combined to form a single substructure. In input files [psupreb5.inp](../eif/psupreb5.inp), [psupreb6.inp](../eif/psupreb6.inp), [psupreb10.inp](../eif/psupreb10.inp), and [psupreb11.inp](../eif/psupreb11.inp) the substructure model is subjected to axial tension. In input files [psupreb7.inp](../eif/psupreb7.inp), [psupreb8.inp](../eif/psupreb8.inp), [psupreb12.inp](../eif/psupreb12.inp), and [psupreb13.inp](../eif/psupreb13.inp) a two-step loading is applied, with axial tension applied in the first step and a torsional moment in the second. Both loadings are applied by using the substructure loading.

Generation files [psupreb9_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb9_gen1.inp) and [psupreba_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreba_gen1.inp) are made up of five elements each, all five elements being combined to form a single substructure. The substructure model is subjected to an axial tension applied.

### Results and discussion

The results from the substructure analysis exactly match the results that are obtained when substructures are not used.

### Input files

[psupreb1.inp](../eif/psupreb1.inp)

SAX1 elements with hoop rebar.

[psupreb1_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb1_gen1.inp)

Substructure generation file referenced in the analysis psupreb1.inp.

[psupreb2.inp](../eif/psupreb2.inp)

SAX1 elements with radial rebar.

[psupreb2_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb2_gen1.inp)

Substructure generation file referenced in the analysis psupreb2.inp.

[psupreb3.inp](../eif/psupreb3.inp)

SAX2 elements with hoop rebar.

[psupreb3_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb3_gen1.inp)

Substructure generation file referenced in the analysis psupreb3.inp.

[psupreb4.inp](../eif/psupreb4.inp)

SAX2 elements with radial rebar.

[psupreb4_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb4_gen1.inp)

Substructure generation file referenced in the analysis psupreb4.inp.

[psupreb5.inp](../eif/psupreb5.inp)

MAX1 elements with rebar under axial tension.

[psupreb5_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb5_gen1.inp)

Substructure generation file referenced in the analysis psupreb5.inp.

[psupreb6.inp](../eif/psupreb6.inp)

MAX2 elements with rebar under axial tension.

[psupreb6_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb6_gen1.inp)

Substructure generation file referenced in the analysis psupreb6.inp.

[psupreb7.inp](../eif/psupreb7.inp)

MGAX1 elements with rebar under axial tension and twist.

[psupreb7_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb7_gen1.inp)

Substructure generation file referenced in the analysis psupreb7.inp.

[psupreb8.inp](../eif/psupreb8.inp)

MGAX2 elements with rebar under axial tension and twist.

[psupreb8_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb8_gen1.inp)

Substructure generation file referenced in the analysis psupreb8.inp.

[psupreb9.inp](../eif/psupreb9.inp)

CAX4 elements with hoop rebar.

[psupreb9_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb9_gen1.inp)

Substructure generation file referenced in the analysis psupreb9.inp.

[psupreb10.inp](../eif/psupreb10.inp)

SFMAX1 elements with rebar under axial tension.

[psupreb10_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb10_gen1.inp)

Substructure generation file referenced in the analysis psupreb10.inp.

[psupreb11.inp](../eif/psupreb11.inp)

SFMAX2 elements with rebar under axial tension.

[psupreb11_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb11_gen1.inp)

Substructure generation file referenced in the analysis psupreb11.inp.

[psupreb12.inp](../eif/psupreb12.inp)

SFMGAX1 elements with rebar under axial tension and twist.

[psupreb12_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb12_gen1.inp)

Substructure generation file referenced in the analysis psupreb12.inp.

[psupreb13.inp](../eif/psupreb13.inp)

SFMGAX2 elements with rebar under axial tension and twist.

[psupreb13_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreb13_gen1.inp)

Substructure generation file referenced in the analysis psupreb13.inp.

[psupreba.inp](../eif/psupreba.inp)

CAX4 elements with axial rebar.

[psupreba_gen1.inp](../eif/psupreba_gen1.inp)

Substructure generation file referenced in the analysis psupreba.inp.




