# 3.9.1 Volumetric drag







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

### Elements tested

AC1D2    AC1D3    

AC2D3    AC2D4    AC2D4R    AC2D6    AC2D8    

AC3D4    AC3D5    AC3D6    AC3D8    AC3D8R    AC3D10    AC3D15    AC3D20    

ACAX3    ACAX4    ACAX4R    ACAX6    ACAX8    

### Features tested

Acoustic analysis in steady-state (direct and subspace-based) and transient analyses with high discontinuity in volumetric drag.

### Problem description

The model consists of a tube of fluid 4 m long with a constant cross-sectional area. The tube lies horizontally (along the *x*-axis) and has a sound source at *x* = 0 m, which is given in the form of an inward volume acceleration. From *x* = 0 m to *x* = 3 m, the acoustic material in the tube is air with a bulk modulus of 1.424  105 N/m2 and a density of 1.21 kg/m3. The region from *x* = 3 m to *x* = 4 m is filled with a dissipative material with the same bulk modulus and density of air but with a volumetric drag of 10,000 Ns/m4. The condition at *x* = 4 m is a closed end. The tube is modeled using 400 first-order or 200 second-order acoustic elements.

The speed of sound for these air constants is *c* = 343 m/s. At the highest frequency of 1100 Hz the wavelength is 0.312 m. The internodal interval (distance between nodes) for the meshes is always .01 m; therefore, at this frequency there are 30 first-order elements per wavelength or 15 second-order elements.

Both direct-solution and subspace-based steady-state dynamic analyses are performed in Abaqus/Standard over 3 frequencies ranging from 100 to 1100 Hz. The transient simulations are performed in Abaqus/Explicit using an excitation frequency of 100 Hz. Different excitation frequencies can be tested by changing the parameters defined in the input files. The transient analysis is also performed in Abaqus/Standard using the AC2D4 element for the purpose of providing a reference solution for Abaqus/Explicit.

### Results and discussion

For Abaqus/Standard at the highest frequency the results with the second-order meshes lie within 0.1% of the analytical solution for the pressure and the phase in the air region. With the first-order meshes the results lie within 7%. As is to be expected, the second-order elements perform considerably better than first-order elements for the same number of degrees of freedom. Results for both types of mesh improve at lower frequencies (where there are more elements per wavelength).

The results from the transient analyses in Abaqus/Explicit agree very well with those obtained from Abaqus/Standard.

### Input files

##### **Abaqus/Standard input files**

[ec12afad.inp](../eif/ec12afad.inp)

AC1D2 elements.

[ec13afad.inp](../eif/ec13afad.inp)

AC1D3 elements.

[ec23afad.inp](../eif/ec23afad.inp)

AC2D3 elements.

[ec24afad.inp](../eif/ec24afad.inp)

AC2D4 elements.

[ec26afad.inp](../eif/ec26afad.inp)

AC2D6 elements.

[ec28afad.inp](../eif/ec28afad.inp)

AC2D8 elements.

[ec34afad.inp](../eif/ec34afad.inp)

AC3D4 elements.

[ec35afad.inp](../eif/ec35afad.inp)

AC3D5 elements.

[ec36afad.inp](../eif/ec36afad.inp)

AC3D6 elements.

[ec38afad.inp](../eif/ec38afad.inp)

AC3D8 elements.

[ec3aafad.inp](../eif/ec3aafad.inp)

AC3D10 elements.

[ec3fafad.inp](../eif/ec3fafad.inp)

AC3D15 elements.

[ec3kafad.inp](../eif/ec3kafad.inp)

AC3D20 elements.

[ec34afad_ams.inp](../eif/ec34afad_ams.inp)

AC3D4 elements, Abaqus/AMS.

[ec35afad_ams.inp](../eif/ec35afad_ams.inp)

AC3D5 elements, Abaqus/AMS.

[ec36afad_ams.inp](../eif/ec36afad_ams.inp)

AC3D6 elements, Abaqus/AMS.

[ec38afad_ams.inp](../eif/ec38afad_ams.inp)

AC3D8 elements, Abaqus/AMS.

[ec3aafad_ams.inp](../eif/ec3aafad_ams.inp)

AC3D10 elements, Abaqus/AMS.

[ec3fafad_ams.inp](../eif/ec3fafad_ams.inp)

AC3D15 elements, Abaqus/AMS.

[ec3kafad_ams.inp](../eif/ec3kafad_ams.inp)

AC3D20 elements, Abaqus/AMS.

[eca3afad.inp](../eif/eca3afad.inp)

ACAX3 elements.

[eca4afad.inp](../eif/eca4afad.inp)

ACAX4 elements.

[eca6afad.inp](../eif/eca6afad.inp)

ACAX6 elements.

[eca8afad.inp](../eif/eca8afad.inp)

ACAX8 elements.

[ec12afaf.f](../eif/ec12afaf.f)

FORTRAN: analytical solution.

[ec24afad_trans.inp](../eif/ec24afad_trans.inp)

AC2D4 elements.

##### **Abaqus/Explicit input files**

[eca3afad_trans_xpl.inp](../eif/eca3afad_trans_xpl.inp)

ACAX3 elements.

[eca4arad_trans_xpl.inp](../eif/eca4arad_trans_xpl.inp)

ACAX4R elements.

[ec23afad_trans_xpl.inp](../eif/ec23afad_trans_xpl.inp)

AC2D3 elements.

[ec24arad_trans_xpl.inp](../eif/ec24arad_trans_xpl.inp)

AC2D4R elements.

[ec34afad_trans_xpl.inp](../eif/ec34afad_trans_xpl.inp)

AC3D4 elements.

[ec36afad_trans_xpl.inp](../eif/ec36afad_trans_xpl.inp)

AC3D6 elements.

[ec38arad_trans_xpl.inp](../eif/ec38arad_trans_xpl.inp)

AC3D8R elements.




