# 3.10.4 Stress/displacement model change: general tests







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

**Structural elements**
B21    B22    B23    B21H    B22H    B23H    B31    B32    B33    B31H    B31OS    B31OSH    B32H    B32OS    B32OSH    PIPE21    PIPE21H    PIPE22    PIPE22H    PIPE31    PIPE31H    PIPE32    PIPE32H    ELBOW31    ELBOW31B    ELBOW31C    ELBOW32    MAX1    MAX2    MGAX1    MGAX2    M3D3    M3D4    M3D4R    M3D8    M3D8R    M3D9R    SAX1    SAX2    SAXA11    SAXA21    STRI3    S3    S3R    S4R    STRI65    S4    S4R5    S8R    S8R5    S9R5    

**Two-dimensional continuum elements**
CAX4    CAX4H    CAX4I    CAX4R    CAX8    CAX8H    CAX8R    CGAX3HT    CGAX3T    CGAX4    CGAX4H    CGAX4HT    CGAX4R    CGAX4RHT    CGAX4RT    CGAX4T    CGAX8    CGAX8H    CGAX8HT    CGAX8R    CGAX8RHT    CGAX8RT    CGAX8T    CPEG4T    CPEG8    CPEG8H    CPEG8R    CINAX4    CINPS4    CPE4    CPE4H    CPE4I    CPE4R    CPE4RP    CPE4RT    CPE4T    CPE8    CPE8H    CPE8P    CPE8PH    CPE8R    CPE8RP    CPS3    CPS4    CPS4I    CPS4R    CPS4RT    CPS4T    CPS6    CPS6M    CPS8    CPS8R    

**Three-dimensional continuum elements**
C3D4    C3D4H    C3D6    C3D6H    C3D8    C3D8H    C3D8I    C3D8IH    C3D8R    C3D8RH    C3D8RT    C3D10    C3D10H    C3D10MH    C3D10MT    C3D15    C3D15V    C3D15VH    C3D20    C3D20H    C3D20R    C3D20H    C3D20RH    C3D27    C3D27H    C3D27R    C3D27H    C3D27RH    CIN3D8    

**Miscellaneous elements**
DASHPOT1    DASHPOT2    JOINTC    LS3S    LS6    MASS    SPRING1    SPRING2    

### Features tested

This section includes a very general set of tests for the reactivation with strain of stress/displacement elements.

Each test contains a pair of bodies, each modeled with either one or two elements, so the tests are one-element or two-element tests. In many cases more than one pair of bodies is in a single input file.

One of these bodies, the reference body, is loaded in various ways without ever being removed from the analysis. The other body, the test body, has the same material and thickness properties; however, the test body has a significantly different initial configuration than the reference body, in such a way that it has different stiffness, volume, and mass. During the first step of the analysis, the test body is deformed into the same shape as the reference body. It is then removed and reactivated strain free while in this configuration so that the initial configurations of the two bodies are now identical.

The bodies are then given identical loadings, and the behavior of the two bodies should be identical. To test reactivation with strain, a further removal and a reactivation, this time with strain, occurs for the test body. This kind of reactivation does not reset the initial configuration of the test body, so the behavior of the two bodies should still be identical.

### Problem description

Outline of steps (Steps 8–13 are applied for all but the few element types for which dynamic steps are not supported):

1. Deform the test body into the identical shape as the undeformed reference body. For structural elements this requires applying rotations as well as displacements at the nodes of the test elements so that the normals, as well as the nodal coordinates, coincide.
2. Remove the test body.
3. Reactivate the test body without strain. The reactivation should reactivate the test body in the identical configuration as the reference body. Element properties such as cross-sectional area or thickness will be reset to their values at the beginning of the analysis.
4. Apply element loading to both bodies. Both bodies will deform in the same manner. The load applied during this step will remain active throughout the remainder of the analysis.
5. Remove the test body. Since the applied loads are element loads, they will be removed from the test body automatically.
6. Reactivate the test body with strain. Previously applied loads will be reactivated automatically as well. No additional loads are applied during this step. The final configuration of the test body will be identical to that at the end of Step 4 for both bodies. From this step through the remainder of the analysis, the test and reference bodies will provide identical results.
7. Apply a thermal load to both bodies.
8. Perform a frequency extraction. Eigenvalues occur in pairs because of the pairs of identical bodies in the input file. Sufficient eigenvectors must be extracted to represent each body of each pair of bodies equally.
9. Perform a transient modal dynamic analysis using the extracted eigenmodes. A concentrated load is applied at one node. The duration of the analysis is approximately one-tenth of the first fundamental time period.
10. Perform a mode-based steady-state dynamic analysis. The frequency sweep is performed approximately up to the first 10 natural frequencies.
11. Perform a direct-solution steady-state dynamic analysis. The frequency sweep is performed approximately up to the first 10 natural frequencies.
12. Perform a subspace-based steady-state dynamic analysis. The frequency sweep is performed approximately up to the first 10 natural frequencies.
13. Perform a nonlinear transient dynamic analysis using the direct-integration dynamic implict procedure. The loads and time step size used are those used in Step 9.

A second set of verification problems is added to test the element loads. These are the input file names with _dl added to the end of the file name. The first four steps are identical to the test described above. The remainder of the steps test most of the available distributed load options for each element type.

A final category of tests includes material and initial conditions tests. This group of verification also consists of two-body test cases. These analyses apply initial conditions to various material properties such as void ratio, kinematic shift tensor, and others.

The test body is removed during the first step of the analyses. Because removal occurs in the first step, the initial conditions will remain in place when the test body is reintroduced strain free in the second step. Displacement boundary conditions are then applied to both bodies, which must show identical behavior.

### Results and discussion

It is not necessary to check the results to an analytical solution for these tests. However, it is necessary to determine if the test body is being reintroduced back into the analysis properly. Proper reintroduction requires that the test and reference bodies behave identically after the second step. All test elements produce results that match the reference elements.

### Input files

##### **Structural element tests**

[pmcp_beam2d.inp](../eif/pmcp_beam2d.inp)

Two-dimensional beam elements.

[pmcp_beam2d_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_beam2d_dl.inp)

Two-dimensional beam elements, element loading test.

[pmcp_beam3d.inp](../eif/pmcp_beam3d.inp)

Three-dimensional beam elements.

[pmcp_beam3d_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_beam3d_dl.inp)

Three-dimensional beam elements, element loading test.

[pmcp_pipe2d.inp](../eif/pmcp_pipe2d.inp)

Two-dimensional pipe elements.

[pmcp_pipe2d_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_pipe2d_dl.inp)

Two-dimensional pipe elements, element loading tests.

[pmcp_pipe3d.inp](../eif/pmcp_pipe3d.inp)

Three-dimensional pipe elements.

[pmcp_pipe3d_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_pipe3d_dl.inp)

Three-dimensional pipe elements, element loading tests.

[pmcp_elbow3d.inp](../eif/pmcp_elbow3d.inp)

Elbow elements.

[pmcp_shell.inp](../eif/pmcp_shell.inp)

General shell elements; includes rebar, cylindrical orientations, and [*NODAL THICKNESS](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mnodalthickness).

[pmcp_shell_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_shell_dl.inp)

General shell elements, element loading tests.

[pmcp_shell5.inp](../eif/pmcp_shell5.inp)

5-degree-of-freedom general shell elements; includes rebar, cylindrical orientations, and [*NODAL THICKNESS](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mnodalthickness); no reactivation WITH STRAIN.

[pmcp_shell5_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_shell5_dl.inp)

5-degree-of-freedom general shell elements, element loading tests.

[pmcp_memb.inp](../eif/pmcp_memb.inp)

General membrane elements; includes rebar, orientations, and [*NODAL THICKNESS](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mnodalthickness).

[pmcp_memb_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_memb_dl.inp)

General membrane elements, element loading tests.

[pmcp_aximemb.inp](../eif/pmcp_aximemb.inp)

Axisymmetric membrane elements, element loading tests; includes rebar.

[pmcp_axishell.inp](../eif/pmcp_axishell.inp)

Axisymmetric shell elements, element loading tests; includes rebar.

[pmcp_saxa.inp](../eif/pmcp_saxa.inp)

Axisymmetric shell elements with nonaxisymmetric loading, excluding element loading tests; includes rebar.

##### **Two-dimensional continuum element tests**

[pmcp_cax.inp](../eif/pmcp_cax.inp)

Axisymmetric continuum elements.

[pmcp_cax_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_cax_dl.inp)

Axisymmetric continuum elements, load test.

[pmcp_cgax.inp](../eif/pmcp_cgax.inp)

Axisymmetric elements with twist; includes load test, excludes dynamic steps.

[pmcp_cgax3t.inp](../eif/pmcp_cgax3t.inp)

Coupled temperature-displacement axisymmetric triangular elements with twist; includes load test, excludes dynamic steps.

[pmcp_cgaxt.inp](../eif/pmcp_cgaxt.inp)

Coupled temperature-displacement axisymmetric quadrilateral elements with twist; includes load test, excludes dynamic steps.

[pmcp_cpe.inp](../eif/pmcp_cpe.inp)

Plane strain elements.

[pmcp_cpe_res.inp](../eif/pmcp_cpe_res.inp)

Restart from pmcp_cpe.inp; Step 4 onward duplicated.

[pmcp_cpe4_ori.inp](../eif/pmcp_cpe4_ori.inp)

CPE4 element with [*ORIENTATION](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-morientation).

[pmcp_cpe4h_ori.inp](../eif/pmcp_cpe4h_ori.inp)

CPE4H element with [*ORIENTATION](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-morientation).

[pmcp_cpe8_ori.inp](../eif/pmcp_cpe8_ori.inp)

CPE8 element with [*ORIENTATION](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-morientation).

[pmcp_cpeg.inp](../eif/pmcp_cpeg.inp)

Generalized plane strain elements.

[pmcp_cps.inp](../eif/pmcp_cps.inp)

Plane stress elements.

[pmcp_cpstri.inp](../eif/pmcp_cpstri.inp)

Triangular plane stress elements.

[pmcp_cps4_ori.inp](../eif/pmcp_cps4_ori.inp)

CPS4 element with [*ORIENTATION](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-morientation).

[pmcp_cps8_ori.inp](../eif/pmcp_cps8_ori.inp)

CPS8 element with [*ORIENTATION](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-morientation).

[pmcp_infinite2d.inp](../eif/pmcp_infinite2d.inp)

Infinite elements.

[pmcp_2dpore.inp](../eif/pmcp_2dpore.inp)

Pore pressure plane strain elements.

[pmcp_2drebar.inp](../eif/pmcp_2drebar.inp)

Plane strain, plane stress, and axisymmetric elements with rebar.

[pmcp_2drebar_res.inp](../eif/pmcp_2drebar_res.inp)

Restart from pmcp_2drebar.inp; Step 4 onward duplicated.

[pmcp_2dtemp.inp](../eif/pmcp_2dtemp.inp)

Coupled temperature-displacement elements.

[pmcp_2dtemp_cgaxt.inp](../eif/pmcp_2dtemp_cgaxt.inp)

Coupled temperature-displacement axisymmetric quadrilateral elements with twist.

[pmcp_2dtemp_cgax3t.inp](../eif/pmcp_2dtemp_cgax3t.inp)

Coupled temperature-displacement axisymmetric triangular elements with twist.

[pmcp_2dtemp_cpeg4t.inp](../eif/pmcp_2dtemp_cpeg4t.inp)

Coupled temperature-displacement generalized plane strain quadrilateral elements.

[pmcp_2dtemp_nodyn.inp](../eif/pmcp_2dtemp_nodyn.inp)

Coupled temperature-displacement generalized plane strain quadrilateral elements, excludes dynamic steps.

##### **Three-dimensional continuum element tests**

[pmcp_c3d8.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d8.inp)

C3D8 element with [*ORIENTATION](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-morientation) and [*REBAR](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mrebar).

[pmcp_c3d8_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d8_dl.inp)

C3D8 element loading test.

[pmcp_c3d8h.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d8h.inp)

General test of C3D8H element.

[pmcp_c3d8h_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d8h_dl.inp)

C3D8H element loading test.

[pmcp_c3d8i.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d8i.inp)

General test of C3D8I element.

[pmcp_c3d8i_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d8i_dl.inp)

C3D8I element loading test.

[pmcp_c3d8ih.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d8ih.inp)

General test of C3D8IH element.

[pmcp_c3d8ih_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d8ih_dl.inp)

C3D8IH element loading test.

[pmcp_c3d8r.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d8r.inp)

General test of C3D8R element.

[pmcp_c3d8r_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d8r_dl.inp)

C3D8R element loading test.

[pmcp_c3d8rh.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d8rh.inp)

General test of C3D8RH element.

[pmcp_c3d8rh_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d8rh_dl.inp)

C3D8RH element loading test.

[pmcp_c3d8rt.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d8rt.inp)

General test of C3D8RT element.

[pmcp_c3d8rt_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d8rt_dl.inp)

C3D8RT element loading test.

[pmcp_c3d10mt.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d10mt.inp)

General test of C3D10MT element.

[pmcp_c3d10mt_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d10mt_dl.inp)

C3D10MT element loading test.

[pmcp_c3d15v.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d15v.inp)

General test of C3D15V element.

[pmcp_c3d15v_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d15v_dl.inp)

C3D15V element loading test.

[pmcp_c3d15vh.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d15vh.inp)

General test of C3D15VH element.

[pmcp_c3d15vh_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d15vh_dl.inp)

C3D15VH element loading test.

[pmcp_c3d20.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d20.inp)

General test of C3D20 element.

[pmcp_c3d20_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d20_dl.inp)

C3D20 element loading test.

[pmcp_c3d20h.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d20h.inp)

General test of C3D20H element.

[pmcp_c3d20h_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d20h_dl.inp)

C3D20H element loading test.

[pmcp_c3d20r.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d20r.inp)

General test of C3D20R element.

[pmcp_c3d20r_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d20r_dl.inp)

C3D20R element loading test.

[pmcp_c3d20rh.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d20rh.inp)

General test of C3D20RH element.

[pmcp_c3d20rh_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d20rh_dl.inp)

C3D20RH element loading test.

[pmcp_c3d27.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d27.inp)

General test of C3D27 element.

[pmcp_c3d27_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d27_dl.inp)

C3D27 element loading test.

[pmcp_c3d27h.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d27h.inp)

General test of C3D27H element.

[pmcp_c3d27h_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d27h_dl.inp)

C3D27H element loading test.

[pmcp_c3d27r.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d27r.inp)

General test of C3D27R element.

[pmcp_c3d27r_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d27r_dl.inp)

C3D27R element loading test.

[pmcp_c3d27rh.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d27rh.inp)

General test of C3D27RH element.

[pmcp_c3d27rh_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_c3d27rh_dl.inp)

C3D27RH element loading test.

[pmcp_infinite3d.inp](../eif/pmcp_infinite3d.inp)

CIN3D8, infinite element test.

[pmcp_prisms.inp](../eif/pmcp_prisms.inp)

General test of C3D6, C3D6H, C3D15, and C3D15H elements.

[pmcp_prisms_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_prisms_dl.inp)

Element loading test of C3D6, C3D6H, C3D15, and C3D15H elements.

[pmcp_tets.inp](../eif/pmcp_tets.inp)

General test of tetrahedral elements.

[pmcp_tets_dl.inp](../eif/pmcp_tets_dl.inp)

Element loading test of tetrahedral elements.

##### **Miscellaneous element tests**

[pmcp_jointc.inp](../eif/pmcp_jointc.inp)

JOINTC element.

[pmcp_linespring.inp](../eif/pmcp_linespring.inp)

Line spring element.

[pmcp_spring.inp](../eif/pmcp_spring.inp)

Spring, dashpot, and mass elements.

[pmcp_substr.inp](../eif/pmcp_substr.inp)

Substructures constructed of beam elements.

##### **Material/initial condition tests**

[pmcp_cap.inp](../eif/pmcp_cap.inp)

Cap plasticity with initial stresses.

[pmcp_clay.inp](../eif/pmcp_clay.inp)

Cam-clay model with initial stresses.

[pmcp_foam.inp](../eif/pmcp_foam.inp)

Crushable foam material.

[pmcp_hyperelastic.inp](../eif/pmcp_hyperelastic.inp)

Hyperelastic material.

[pmcp_hyperfoam.inp](../eif/pmcp_hyperfoam.inp)

Hyperfoam material.

[pmcp_initstress.inp](../eif/pmcp_initstress.inp)

Initial stresses in elements and [*NODAL THICKNESS](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mnodalthickness) are included.

[pmcp_mises.inp](../eif/pmcp_mises.inp)

Mises plasticity with initial shift in kinematic hardening tensor.

[pmcp_porous.inp](../eif/pmcp_porous.inp)

Porous metal plasticity.

These tests include elements CAX4, CAXA41, CPE4, CPS4, CGAX4, S4R, and M3D4R. Rebars are included with the CAX4, M3D4R, and S4R elements.




