# 3.11.2 Analysis of cyclic symmetric models







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

B21    B22    B32    

C3D8R    C3D20    CPE4H    CPE4R    CPE8R    CPS4R    CPS8R    

DC2D4    DC2D8    DC3D8    

S4R    S8R    SC8R    

### Features tested

Natural frequency extraction for two-dimensional and three-dimensional models that exhibit cyclic symmetry.

Element-based and node-based cyclic symmetric surface definitions on matched and mismatched meshes.

Nodal transformation with the cyclic symmetry analysis capability and use of multi-point constraints.

Application of preload prior to natural frequency extraction.

Modal-based steady-state dynamic analysis for models that exhibit cyclic symmetry.

Heat transfer analysis for models that exhibit cyclic symmetry.

### Problem description

The models consist of 1  2 and 2  2 element meshes. There are no boundary conditions and loads, except for preload tests. Preloading of the model is done with both concentrated and distributed loads and for heat transfer analysis with temperature assigned to the chosen set of nodes.

### Results and discussion

The results for the natural frequency extraction of the cyclic symmetric models are the same as those obtained for a corresponding 360 model.

### Input files

##### **Beam elements**

[cyclicsym_b21_nn.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_b21_nn.inp)

Two-element mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_b21_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_b21_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to two-element mesh of B21 elements.

[cyclicsym_b22_nn.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_b22_nn.inp)

Single-element mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_b22_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_b22_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to single-element mesh of B22 elements.

[cyclicsym_b31_nn.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_b31_nn.inp)

Single-element mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_b31_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_b31_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to single-element mesh of B31 elements.

[cyclicsym_b32_nn.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_b32_nn.inp)

Single-element mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_b32_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_b32_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to single-element mesh of B32 elements.

##### **Continuum elements**

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_ee.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_ee.inp)

1  2 mesh with element-type slave surface and element-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_en.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_en.inp)

1  2 mesh with element-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_ne.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_ne.inp)

1  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and element-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_nn.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_nn.inp)

1  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to 1  2 mesh of C3D8R elements.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_nn_ref.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_nn_ref.inp)

2  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_360_ref.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_360_ref.inp)

Full model corresponding to 2  2 mesh of C3D8R elements.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_mis_map_ee.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_mis_map_ee.inp)

2  2 mismatched mesh with element-type slave surface and element-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_mis_map_ne.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_mis_map_ne.inp)

2  2 mismatched mesh with node-type slave surface and element-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_mis_map_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_mis_map_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to 2  2 mismatched mesh of C3D8R elements.

[cyclicsym_c3d20_ne.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d20_ne.inp)

1  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and element-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_c3d20_nn.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d20_nn.inp)

1  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_c3d20_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d20_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to 1  2 mesh of C3D20 elements.

[cyclicsym_c3d20_nn_ref.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d20_nn_ref.inp)

2  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_c3d20_360_ref.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d20_360_ref.inp)

Full model corresponding to 2  2 mesh of C3D20 elements.

[cyclicsym_cpe4h_nn.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4h_nn.inp)

1  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cpe4h_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4h_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to 1  2 mesh of CPE4H elements.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_ee.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_ee.inp)

1  2 mesh with element-type slave surface and element-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_en.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_en.inp)

1  2 mesh with element-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_ne.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_ne.inp)

1  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and element-type master surface type.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_nn.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_nn.inp)

1  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to 1  2 mesh of CPE4R elements.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_nn_ref.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_nn_ref.inp)

2  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_360_ref.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_360_ref.inp)

Full model corresponding to 2  2 mesh of CPE4R elements.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_mis_map_ee.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_mis_map_ee.inp)

2  2 mismatched mesh with element-type slave surface and element-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_mis_map_ne.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_mis_map_ne.inp)

2  2 mismatched mesh with node-type slave surface and element-type master surface type.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_mis_map_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_mis_map_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to 2  2 mismatched mesh of CPE4R elements.

[cyclicsym_cpe8r_ee.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe8r_ee.inp)

1  2 mesh with element-type slave surface and element-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cpe8r_en.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe8r_en.inp)

1  2 mesh with element-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cpe8r_ne.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe8r_ne.inp)

1  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and element-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cpe8r_nn.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe8r_nn.inp)

1  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cpe8r_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe8r_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to 1  2 mesh of CPE8R elements.

[cyclicsym_cpe8r_nn_ref.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe8r_nn_ref.inp)

2  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cpe8r_360_ref.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe8r_360_ref.inp)

Full model corresponding to 2  2 mesh of CPE8R elements.

[cyclicsym_cps4r_ee.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps4r_ee.inp)

1  2 mesh with element-type slave surface and element-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cps4r_en.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps4r_en.inp)

1  2 mesh with element-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cps4r_ne.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps4r_ne.inp)

1  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and element-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cps4r_nn.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps4r_nn.inp)

1  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cps4r_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps4r_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to 1  2 mesh of CPS4R elements.

[cyclicsym_cps4r_nn_ref.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps4r_nn_ref.inp)

2  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cps4r_360_ref.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps4r_360_ref.inp)

Full model corresponding to 2  2 mesh of CPS4R elements.

[cyclicsym_cps4r_mis_map_ee.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps4r_mis_map_ee.inp)

2  2 mismatched mesh with element-type slave surface and element-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cps4r_mis_map_ne.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps4r_mis_map_ne.inp)

2  2 mismatched mesh with node-type slave surface and element-type master surface type.

[cyclicsym_cps4r_mis_map_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps4r_mis_map_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to 2  2 mismatched mesh of CPS4R elements.

[cyclicsym_cps8r_ee.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps8r_ee.inp)

1  2 mesh with element-type slave surface and element-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cps8r_en.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps8r_en.inp)

1  2 mesh with element-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cps8r_ne.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps8r_ne.inp)

1  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and element-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cps8r_nn.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps8r_nn.inp)

1  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cps8r_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps8r_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to 1  2 mesh of CPS8R elements.

[cyclicsym_cps8r_nn_ref.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps8r_nn_ref.inp)

2  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_cps8r_360_ref.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps8r_360_ref.inp)

Full model corresponding to 2  2 mesh of CPS8R elements.

##### **Continuum shell elements**

[cyclicsym_sc8r_nn.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_sc8r_nn.inp)

1  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_sc8r_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_sc8r_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to 1  2 mesh of SC8R elements.

##### **Shell elements**

[cyclicsym_s4r_nn.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_s4r_nn.inp)

1  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_s4r_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_s4r_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to 1  2 mesh of S4R elements.

[cyclicsym_s4r_nn_ref.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_s4r_nn_ref.inp)

2  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_s4r_360_ref.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_s4r_360_ref.inp)

Full model corresponding to 2  2 mesh of S4R elements.

[cyclicsym_s4r_mis_map_ne.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_s4r_mis_map_ne.inp)

2  2 mismatched mesh with node-type slave surface and element-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_s4r_mis_map_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_s4r_mis_map_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to 12  2 mismatched mesh of S4R elements.

[cyclicsym_s8r_nn.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_s8r_nn.inp)

1  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_s8r_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_s8r_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to 1  2 mesh of S8R elements.

[cyclicsym_s8r_nn_ref.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_s8r_nn_ref.inp)

2  2 mesh with node-type slave surface and node-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_s8r_360_ref.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_s8r_360_ref.inp)

Full model corresponding to 2  2 mesh of S8R elements.

##### **Other features tested**

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_ee_cload_x.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_ee_cload_x.inp)

Frequency extraction after a preloading step in which a [*CLOAD](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hcload) is applied in the global *x*-direction.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_ee_cload_y.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_ee_cload_y.inp)

Frequency extraction after a preloading step in which a [*CLOAD](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hcload) is applied in the global *y*-direction.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_360_cload.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_360_cload.inp)

Full model corresponding to the application of a [*CLOAD](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hcload) before frequency extraction.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_ee_dload.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_ee_dload.inp)

Frequency extraction after a preloading step in which a [*DLOAD](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdload) is applied.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_360_dload.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_360_dload.inp)

Full model corresponding to the application of a [*DLOAD](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdload) before frequency extraction.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_nn_mpc.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_nn_mpc.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with an [*MPC](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mmpc) option.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_360_mpc.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_360_mpc.inp)

Full model corresponding to the use of an [*MPC](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mmpc) option.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_nn_single_node_x.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_nn_single_node_x.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with a single node at one end and the cyclic symmetry axis parallel to the global *x*-axis.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_nn_single_node_y.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_nn_single_node_y.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with a single node at one end and the cyclic symmetry axis parallel to the global *y*-axis.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_nn_single_node_z.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_nn_single_node_z.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with a single node at one end and the cyclic symmetry axis parallel to the global *z*-axis.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_360_single_node.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_360_single_node.inp)

Full model corresponding to the cyclic symmetric model with a single node at one end.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_nn_trans.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_nn_trans.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with a [*TRANSFORM](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mtransform) option.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_360_trans.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_360_trans.inp)

Full model corresponding to the use of a [*TRANSFORM](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mtransform) option.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_ss.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_ss.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with a preloading step using the [*VISCO](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hvisco) option, frequency extraction, and steady-state modal-based dynamic analysis.

[cyclicsym_c3d8r_360_ss.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_c3d8r_360_ss.inp)

Full model corresponding to the use of a preloading step with the [*VISCO](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hvisco) option, frequency extraction, and steady-state modal-based dynamic analysis.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_nn_basis.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_nn_basis.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with a static nonlinear step that forms the basis for the analysis in cyclicsym_cpe4r_nn_rezone.inp.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_nn_rezone.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_nn_rezone.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with a frequency extraction step following the mapping of the solution from the analysis in cyclicsym_cpe4r_nn_basis.inp.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_360_basis.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_360_basis.inp)

Full model with a static nonlinear step that forms the basis for the analysis in cyclicsym_cpe4r_360_rezone.inp.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_360_rezone.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_360_rezone.inp)

Full model with a frequency extraction step following the mapping of the solution from the analysis in cyclicsym_cpe4r_360_basis.inp.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_nn_multi_step.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_nn_multi_step.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with multiple frequency extraction steps.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_nn_restart.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_nn_restart.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with multiple frequency extraction steps performed as a restart analysis after the first step in the analysis in cyclicsym_cpe4r_nn_multi_step.inp.

[cyclicsym_cps4r_nn_sub.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps4r_nn_sub.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with the [*SUBMODEL](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-msubmodel) option.

[cyclicsym_cps4r_nn_sub_sb.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps4r_nn_sub_sb.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with the [*SUBMODEL](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-msubmodel), TYPE=SURFACE option.

[cyclicsym_cps4r_nn_full.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cps4r_nn_full.inp)

Full cyclic symmetric model used in the analysis in cyclicsym_cps4r_nn_sub.inp and cyclicsym_cps4r_nn_sub_sb.inp.

[cyclicsym_s4r_nn_mdl_change.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_s4r_nn_mdl_change.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with the [*MODEL CHANGE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hmodelchange) option.

[cyclicsym_s4r_360_mdl_change.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_s4r_360_mdl_change.inp)

Full model with the [*MODEL CHANGE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hmodelchange) option.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_ss.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_ss.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with a nonlinear preloading static step, frequency extraction, and modal-based steady-state dynamic analysis (one nodal diameter) using the [*DLOAD](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdload) and [*DSLOAD](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdsload) options.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_360_ss.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_360_ss.inp)

Full model with a nonlinear preloading static step, frequency extraction, and modal-based steady-state dynamic analysis (one nodal diameter) using the [*DLOAD](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdload) and [*DSLOAD](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdsload) options.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_ss2.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_ss2.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with frequency extraction and modal-based steady-state dynamic analysis (two nodal diameters) using the [*DLOAD](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdload) and [*DSLOAD](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdsload) options.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_360_ss2.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_360_ss2.inp)

Full model with frequency extraction and modal-based steady-state dynamic analysis (two nodal diameters) using the [*DLOAD](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdload) and [*DSLOAD](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdsload) options.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_cl_ss.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_cl_ss.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with a nonlinear preloading static step, frequency extraction, and two modal-based steady-state dynamic analyses (one and two nodal diameters) using the [*CLOAD](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hcload), [*DLOAD](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdload), and [*TRANSFORM](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mtransform) options.

[cyclicsym_cpe4r_360_cl_ss.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_cpe4r_360_cl_ss.inp)

Full model with a nonlinear preloading static step, frequency extraction, and two modal-based steady-state dynamic analyses (one and two nodal diameters) using the [*CLOAD](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hcload), [*DLOAD](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdload), and [*TRANSFORM](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mtransform) options.

[cyclicsym_dc2d4_mis_heat.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc2d4_mis_heat.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with a transient heat transfer analysis.

[cyclicsym_dc2d4_mis_heat_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc2d4_mis_heat_360.inp)

Full model with a transient heat transfer analysis.

[cyclicsym_dc2d8_nn_heat.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc2d8_nn_heat.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with a steady-state heat transfer analysis.

[cyclicsym_dc2d8_heat_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc2d8_heat_360.inp)

Full model with a steady-state heat transfer analysis.

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_nn_heat.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_nn_heat.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with a steady-state heat transfer analysis.

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_360.inp)

Full model with a steady-state heat transfer analysis.

[cyclicsym_dcc2d4_nn_loads.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dcc2d4_nn_loads.inp)

Cyclic symmetric model with all thermal loads ([*FILM](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hfilm), [*CFILM](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hcfilm), [*SFILM](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsfilm), [*CFLUX](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hcflux), [*DFLUX](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdflux), [*DSFLUX](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdsflux), [*RADIATE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hradiate), [*CRADIATE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hcradiate), and [*SRADIATE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsradiate)).

[cyclicsym_dcc2d4_360_loads.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dcc2d4_360_loads.inp)

Full model with all thermal loads ([*FILM](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hfilm), [*CFILM](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hcfilm), [*SFILM](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsfilm), [*CFLUX](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hcflux), [*DFLUX](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdflux), [*DSFLUX](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdsflux), [*RADIATE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hradiate), [*CRADIATE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hcradiate), and [*SRADIATE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsradiate)).

[cyclicsym_dc2d4_heat_nonlin.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc2d4_heat_nonlin.inp)

Cyclic symmetry model with a nonlinear heat transfer analysis.

[cyclicsym_dc2d4_heat_nonlin_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc2d4_heat_nonlin_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to nonlinear heat transfer analysis.

[cyclicsym_dc2d4_mis_heat_ee.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc2d4_mis_heat_ee.inp)

Cyclic symmetry model with a heat transfer analysis. Mismatched mesh with element-type slave surface and element-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_dc2d4_mis_heat_ne.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc2d4_mis_heat_ne.inp)

Cyclic symmetry model with a heat transfer analysis. Mismatched mesh with node-type slave surface and element-type master surface.

[cyclicsym_dc2d4_mis_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc2d4_mis_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to mismatched mesh of DC2D4 elements. 

[cyclicsym_dc2d8_heat2D.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc2d8_heat2D.inp)

Cyclic symmetry model with a heat transfer analysis using DC2D8 elements. 

[cyclicsym_dc2d8_heat2D_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc2d8_heat2D_360.inp)

Full model corresponding to the heat transfer analysis using DC2D8 elements. 

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_CFLUX.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_CFLUX.inp)

Cyclic symmetry model with a heat transfer analysis ([*CFLUX](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hcflux)).

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_CFLUX_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_CFLUX_360.inp)

Full model with a heat transfer analysis ([*CFLUX](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hcflux)).

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_DFLUX.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_DFLUX.inp)

Cyclic symmetry model with a heat transfer analysis ([*DFLUX](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdflux)).

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_DFLUX_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_DFLUX_360.inp)

Full model with a heat transfer analysis ([*DFLUX](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdflux)).

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_DSFLUX.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_DSFLUX.inp)

Cyclic symmetry model with a heat transfer analysis ([*DSFLUX](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdsflux)).

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_DSFLUX_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_DSFLUX_360.inp)

Full model with a heat transfer analysis ([*DSFLUX](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdsflux)).

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_FILM.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_FILM.inp)

Cyclic symmetry model with a heat transfer analysis ([*FILM](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hfilm)).

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_FILM_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_FILM_360.inp)

Full model with a heat transfer analysis ([*FILM](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hfilm)).

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_RAD.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_RAD.inp)

Cyclic symmetry model with a heat transfer analysis ([*RADIATE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hradiate)).

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_RAD_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_RAD_360.inp)

Full model with a heat transfer analysis ([*RADIATE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hradiate)).

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_SFILM.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_SFILM.inp)

Cyclic symmetry model with a heat transfer analysis ([*SFILM](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsfilm)).

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_SFILM_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_SFILM_360.inp)

Full model with a heat transfer analysis ([*SFILM](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsfilm)).

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_SRAD.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_SRAD.inp)

Cyclic symmetry model with a heat transfer analysis ([*SRADIATE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsradiate)).

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_SRAD_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_SRAD_360.inp)

Full model with a heat transfer analysis ([*SRADIATE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hsradiate)).

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_XYZ.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_XYZ.inp)

Cyclic symmetry model with a heat transfer analysis. The symmetry axis is a linear combination of the *X*, *Y*, and *Z* axes.

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_XYZ_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_XYZ_360.inp)

Full model with a heat transfer analysis. The symmetry axis is a linear combination of the *X*, *Y*, and *Z* axes.

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_axisY.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_axisY.inp)

Cyclic symmetry model with a heat transfer analysis. The symmetry axis is parallel to the *Y*-axis.

[cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_axisY_360.inp](../eif/cyclicsym_dc3d8_heat_axisY_360.inp)

Full model with a heat transfer analysis. The symmetry axis is parallel to the *Y*-axis.




