# 3.8.4 Cylindrical continuum stress/displacement submodeling







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

CCL9    CCL12    CCL18    CCL24    

### Features tested

The submodeling capability is applied to cylindrical elements. The general static procedure is used in various combinations for both the global and submodel analyses.

### Problem description

**Model: **

All global models consist of an 180 cylindrical segment with an outer radius of 2 and an inner radius of 1. The submodel input files model the right half of the global model. The submodel driven nodes lie along the symmetrical plane of the global model.

**Material: **

| Young's modulus | 6 106 |
| --- | --- |
| Poisson's ratio | 0 |

**Loading and boundary conditions: **

All the nodes at both ends are fixed in the circumferential direction, and all the nodes at the inner surface are constrained in all degrees of freedom. Distributed loads or prescribed displacements are applied at the outer surface of the cylindrical elements.

### Results and discussion

The amplitudes of all driven variables in the submodeled analysis are correctly identified on the global analysis file output and applied at the driven nodes in the submodel analysis.

### Input files

##### **Abaqus/Standard input files**

[xembedele3d10_std.inp](../eif/xembedele3d10_std.inp)

CCL12 elements; global analysis.

[xembedele3d10_submodel_std.inp](../eif/xembedele3d10_submodel_std.inp)

CCL12 elements; submodel analysis.

[xembedele3d11_std.inp](../eif/xembedele3d11_std.inp)

CCL24 elements; global analysis.

[xembedele3d11_submodel_std.inp](../eif/xembedele3d11_submodel_std.inp)

CCL24 elements; submodel analysis.

[xembedele3d12_std.inp](../eif/xembedele3d12_std.inp)

CCL9 elements; global analysis.

[xembedele3d12_submodel_std.inp](../eif/xembedele3d12_submodel_std.inp)

CCL9 elements; submodel analysis.

[xembedele3d13_std.inp](../eif/xembedele3d13_std.inp)

CCL18 elements; global analysis.

[xembedele3d13_submodel_std.inp](../eif/xembedele3d13_submodel_std.inp)

CCL18 elements; submodel analysis.




