# 3.8.7 Membrane submodeling







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

### Elements tested

M3D3    M3D4    M3D4R    M3D6    M3D8R    

### Features tested

The submodeling capability is applied to membrane models. The global input files use the models from the membrane patch tests described in ["Membrane patch test," Section 1.5.1](ch01s05abv69.md). The submodel input files model the right half of the global model; in Abaqus/Standard the submodel has 16 M3D8 elements, and in Abaqus/Explicit the submodel uses 16 M3D4R or 32 M3D3 elements. The submodel driven nodes lie along the line parallel to the *y*-axis of the model. In Abaqus/Standard static perturbation and static general procedures are tested. In Abaqus/Explicit the analysis is performed as a quasi-static procedure; a velocity boundary condition that gives rise to the perturbation is specified instead of the perturbation step.

### Problem description

The global models' dimensions and material properties are the same as in the patch tests used in ["Membrane patch test," Section 1.5.1](ch01s05abv69.md). The nodal file requests have been changed to enable the interpolation for the driven variables' values or driven nodes' history amplitudes. The submodel material properties are the same as the global model properties.

### Results and discussion

All driven variables are correctly interpolated from the global analysis. Since the prescribed displacement and/or concentrated force patterns are brought to their physical positions on the submodel, the stress fields do not match in both models.

### Input files

##### **Abaqus/Standard input files**

[pgm33sfs.inp](../eif/pgm33sfs.inp)

M3D3 elements; global analysis.

[psm38sf1.inp](../eif/psm38sf1.inp)

M3D3 elements; submodel analysis.

[pgm33sfsgm.inp](../eif/pgm33sfsgm.inp)

M3D3 elements; multiple [*SUBMODEL](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-msubmodel) options; global analysis.

[psm38sf1gm.inp](../eif/psm38sf1gm.inp)

M3D3 elements; multiple [*SUBMODEL](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-msubmodel) options; submodel analysis.

[pgm34sfs.inp](../eif/pgm34sfs.inp)

M3D4 elements; global analysis.

[psm38sf2.inp](../eif/psm38sf2.inp)

M3D4 elements; submodel analysis.

[pgm36sfs.inp](../eif/pgm36sfs.inp)

M3D6 elements; global analysis.

[psm38sf3.inp](../eif/psm38sf3.inp)

M3D6 elements; submodel analysis.

[pgm38srs.inp](../eif/pgm38srs.inp)

M3D8R elements; global analysis.

[psm38sf4.inp](../eif/psm38sf4.inp)

M3D8R elements; submodel analysis.

##### **Abaqus/Explicit input files**

[submodelmemb_g_m3d3_xpl.inp](../eif/submodelmemb_g_m3d3_xpl.inp)

M3D3 elements; global analysis.

[submodelmemb_s_m3d3_xpl.inp](../eif/submodelmemb_s_m3d3_xpl.inp)

M3D3 elements; submodel analysis.

[submodelmemb_g_m3d4r_xpl.inp](../eif/submodelmemb_g_m3d4r_xpl.inp)

M3D4R elements; global analysis.

[submodelmemb_s_m3d4r_xpl.inp](../eif/submodelmemb_s_m3d4r_xpl.inp)

M3D4R elements; submodel analysis.




