# 3.5.8 Substructure library utilities







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Element tested

S4R5

### Features tested

Utilities that copy a substructure definition from one library or substructure identifier to another, delete a substructure from a library, and summarize information about the substructures stored in a library are tested. Substructure regeneration is tested in conjunction with these utilities.

### Problem description

The hemispherical shell model used in ["Substructure rotation, mirroring, transformation, and constraints," Section 3.5.1](ch03s05abv187.md), is used to test the substructure utilities. The analysis is performed only at the third level of substructure; i.e., the analysis of half of a sphere. Library utilities are tested by moving and deleting the lower-level substructures from different libraries during the various stages of the generation. Regeneration of the substructure is also tested at the analysis stage. The utility that provides a summary of information about the substructures is used to monitor the different libraries that are created.

You can combine the results of substructure analyses using the **abaqus substructurecombine** execution procedure. For more information, see ["Combining output from substructures," Section 3.2.22 of the Abaqus Analysis User's Guide](../usb/usb-link.md#usb-int-dsubstructurecombineproc). 

### Results and discussion

The results from the analysis match the results in the third-level analysis in ["Substructure rotation, mirroring, transformation, and constraints," Section 3.5.1](ch03s05abv187.md).

### Input files

[psuphou1.inp](../eif/psuphou1.inp)

Generates the first-level substructure.

[psuphou2.inp](../eif/psuphou2.inp)

Generates the second-level substructure after housekeeping.

[psuphou3.inp](../eif/psuphou3.inp)

Generates the third-level substructure after housekeeping.

[psuphou4_gen3.inp](../eif/psuphou4_gen3.inp)

Regenerates the third-level substructure referenced in the analysis psuphou4.inp.

[psuphou4.inp](../eif/psuphou4.inp)

Performs the actual analysis.




