# 4.1.34 VUFIELD







### 4.1.34 [`VUFIELD`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vufield)

**Product: **Abaqus/Explicit  

### Elements tested

CONN3D2    CPE4R    SPRINGA    

### Feature tested

User subroutine to define field variable values.

### Problem description

Three tests are provided to demonstrate the use of user subroutine [`VUFIELD`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vufield) and to verify that field variable values are properly transferred to a structure when the values are set using user subroutines. 

The first example tests connector behavior by specifying field variables through both input file and user subroutine [`VUFIELD`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vufield). The field variable value specified in [`VUFIELD`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vufield) is constant and applies to the second field variable. The value for the first field variable is defined in the input file using an amplitude.

In the second example the number of nodes passed into user subroutine [`VUFIELD`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vufield) is limited to the number specified by the blocking size. The amplitude specified in the data line does not affect field variable values defined in the user subroutine.

The third example defines two field variables on the given node set. These field variables are passed into user subroutine [`VUFIELD`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vufield) at the same time, so their values can be updated simultaneously. The returned field variable values are then modulated by an amplitude.

### Results and discussion

Results obtained from using user subroutine [`VUFIELD`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vufield) are compared with those where field variable values are specified directly in the data line. The results match.

### Input files

[connectorbehv_vufield.inp](../eif/connectorbehv_vufield.inp)

Input file for the first example.

[connectorbehv_vufield.f](../eif/connectorbehv_vufield.f)

User subroutine used in connectorbehv_vufield.inp.

[rigidwithfric_vufield.inp](../eif/rigidwithfric_vufield.inp)

Input file for the second example.

[rigidwithfric_vufield.f](../eif/rigidwithfric_vufield.f)

User subroutine used in rigidwithfric_vufield.inp.

[springs_vufield.inp](../eif/springs_vufield.inp)

Input file for the third example.

[springs_vufield.f](../eif/springs_vufield.f)

User subroutine used in springs_vufield.inp.




