# 4.1.33 VUEL







### 4.1.33 [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel)

**Product: **Abaqus/Explicit  

**Warning:**User subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) provides the user with a very general option to interface with the code. With any use of this subroutine interface, extensive verification should be done to make sure that the results are correct.

### Elements tested

CONN3D2    T3D2    

### Feature tested

User subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) to define the element mass matrix, the force vector, and the stable time increment.

### Problem description

The finite element model for most test cases consists of linear truss or spring elements defined using user subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel). In most cases the results from the analysis are compared against reference results obtained using an identical model with Abaqus elements T3D2 and CONN3D2. A truss element lying along the global *X*-axis is defined in a user subroutine. This user element is used in a model with single or multiple user elements subjected to concentrated loads. The results are then compared with models using T3D2 elements. 

The field and temperature-dependent variation in material properties can be defined in the user element. To test this capability, a truss element is defined with a linear variation of elastic modulus with temperature and field variables. The results are then compared with temperature and field variable dependencies in properties in a T3D2 element.

A number of uncoupled linear spring elements are defined using the user subroutine interface. Both two-dimensional and three-dimensional elements are tested. The following features are tested with three-dimensional spring elements: an element with more than two nodes, an element with degrees of freedom ordered in a nonstandard way, and an element with a different number of degrees of freedom at its nodes.

User-defined elements with acoustic degrees of freedom and with heat transfer capabilities are also tested.

### Results and discussion

The verification consists of comparing the results obtained from the model using user-defined elements with the corresponding model using regular Abaqus elements. The results are as expected.

### Input files

[vuel_truss_3d_1el.inp](../eif/vuel_truss_3d_1el.inp)

Analysis of a one-element truss defined in user subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) in vuel_truss.f.

[vuel_truss_3d_1el_dload.inp](../eif/vuel_truss_3d_1el_dload.inp)

Analysis of a one-element truss defined in user subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) in vuel_truss.f using user-coded external loads.

[vuel_truss_3d_250el.inp](../eif/vuel_truss_3d_250el.inp)

Analysis of multiple truss elements connected in series; the truss element is defined in user subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) in vuel_truss.f.

[vuel_truss.f](../eif/vuel_truss.f)

User subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) defining a three-dimensional truss element along the global *x*-direction.

[abq_truss_3d_1el.inp](../eif/abq_truss_3d_1el.inp)

Analysis of a one-element truss defined using the T3D2 element; reference solution for vuel_truss_3d_1el.inp.

[abq_truss_3d_250el.inp](../eif/abq_truss_3d_250el.inp)

Analysis of multiple truss elements defined using the T3D2 element; reference solution for vuel_truss_3d_250el.inp.

[vuel_truss_3d_1el_fieldvar.inp](../eif/vuel_truss_3d_1el_fieldvar.inp)

A one-element truss with field variable-dependent material properties. The element is defined in user subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) in vuel_truss_fieldvar.f.

[vuel_truss_fieldvar.f](../eif/vuel_truss_fieldvar.f)

User subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) defining a three-dimensional truss element with field variable-dependent material properties.

[abq_truss_3d_1el_fieldvar.inp](../eif/abq_truss_3d_1el_fieldvar.inp)

 A T3D2 element with field variable-dependent material properties; reference solution for vuel_truss_3d_1el_fieldvar.inp.

[vuel_truss_3d_1el_temp.inp](../eif/vuel_truss_3d_1el_temp.inp)

A one-element truss with temperature-dependent material properties. The element is defined in user subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) in vuel_truss_temp.f.

[vuel_truss_temp.f](../eif/vuel_truss_temp.f)

User subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) defining a three-dimensional truss element with temperature-dependent material properties.

[abq_truss_3d_1el_temp.inp](../eif/abq_truss_3d_1el_temp.inp)

 A T3D2 element with temperature-dependent material properties; reference solution for vuel_truss_3d_1el_temp.inp.

[vuel_springs_3d_freevibx.inp](../eif/vuel_springs_3d_freevibx.inp)

Free vibration in the global *x*-direction of a linear spring defined using user subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) in vuel_springs_3d.f.

[abq_connector_freevibx.inp](../eif/abq_connector_freevibx.inp)

Free vibration in the global *x*-direction of a linear spring defined using connector element CONN3D2; reference solution for vuel_springs_3d_freevibx.inp.

[vuel_springs_3d_freevibrotx.inp](../eif/vuel_springs_3d_freevibrotx.inp)

Free rotational vibration about the global *x*-direction of a linear spring defined using user subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) in vuel_springs_3d.f.

[abq_connector_freevibrotx.inp](../eif/abq_connector_freevibrotx.inp)

Free rotational vibration about the global *x*-direction of a linear spring defined using connector element CONN3D2; reference solution for vuel_springs_3d_freevibrotx.inp.

[vuel_springs_3d_1el.inp](../eif/vuel_springs_3d_1el.inp)

A one-element linear spring subjected to tensile loading; the element is defined using user subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) in vuel_springs_3d.f.

[vuel_springs_3d_10el.inp](../eif/vuel_springs_3d_10el.inp)

Multiple linear springs subjected to tensile loading; the element is defined using user subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) in vuel_springs_3d.f.

[vuel_springs_3d.f](../eif/vuel_springs_3d.f)

User subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) defining a three-dimensional linear spring element.

[vuel_springs_3d_3node.inp](../eif/vuel_springs_3d_3node.inp)

A one-element linear spring with three nodes subjected to tensile loading; the element is defined using user subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) in vuel_springs_3d_3node.f.

[vuel_springs_3d_3node.f](../eif/vuel_springs_3d_3node.f)

User subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) defining a three-dimensional linear spring element with three nodes.

[vuel_springs_3d_diffDofs.inp](../eif/vuel_springs_3d_diffDofs.inp)

A one-element linear spring with a different number of degrees of freedom defined at its nodes—the first node has six degrees of freedom, whereas the second node has only three degrees of freedom; the element is defined in user subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) in vuel_springs_3d_diffDofs.f.

[vuel_springs_3d_diffDofs.f](../eif/vuel_springs_3d_diffDofs.f)

User subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) defining a three-dimensional spring element with a different number of degrees of freedom at its two nodes.

[vuel_springs_3d_jumpDofs.inp](../eif/vuel_springs_3d_jumpDofs.inp)

A one-element linear spring with degrees of freedom ordered in a nonstandard way; the first degree of freedom from all the nodes is listed first, followed by second degree of freedom from all the nodes, and so on.

[vuel_springs_3d_jumpDofs.f](../eif/vuel_springs_3d_jumpDofs.f)

User subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) defining a three-dimensional spring element with degrees of freedom ordered in a nonstandard way.

[vuel_springs_2d_1el.inp](../eif/vuel_springs_2d_1el.inp)

A one-element two-dimensional linear spring. The element is defined in user subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) in vuel_springs_2d.f.

[vuel_springs_2d.f](../eif/vuel_springs_2d.f)

User subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) defining a two-dimensional linear spring element.

[vuel_acoustic_1el.inp](../eif/vuel_acoustic_1el.inp)

A one-element input file to test acoustic user elements defined in user subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) in vuel_acoustic.f.

[vuel_acoustic.f](../eif/vuel_acoustic.f)

User subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) defining an acoustic element.

[vuel_heat_transf_1el.inp](../eif/vuel_heat_transf_1el.inp)

A one-element input file to test a heat transfer user element defined in user subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) in vuel_heat_transf.f.

[vuel_heat_transf.f](../eif/vuel_heat_transf.f)

User subroutine [`VUEL`](../sub/sub-link.md#sub-xsl-vuel) defining a heat transfer element.




