# 5.2.4 Rigid body motion output variables







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

B21    B21H    B22    B22H    B23    B23H    B31    B31H    B32    B32H    B33    B33H    

C3D4    C3D6    C3D8    C3D10    C3D15    C3D20    

CAX3    CAX4    CAX4R    CAX6    CAX8    CAX8R    

CPEG3    CPEG3H    CPEG4    CPEG4H    CPEG4R    CPEG4RH    CPEG4I    CPEG4IH    CPEG6    CPEG6H    CPEG8    CPEG8H    CPEG8R    CPEG8RH    

CPE3    CPE3H    CPE4    CPE4H    CPE4R    CPE4RH    CPE4I    CPE4IH    CPE6    CPE6H    

CPE8    CPE8H    CPE8R    CPE8RH    

CPS3    CPS4    CPS4R    CPS6    CPS8    CPS8R    

ELBOW31    ELBOW31B    ELBOW31C    ELBOW32    

M3D3    M3D4    M3D4R    M3D6    M3D8    M3D8R    M3D9    M3D9R    MASS    

PIPE21    PIPE21H    PIPE31    PIPE31H    PIPE32    PIPE32H    ROTARYI    PIPE22    PIPE22H    

S3R    S4    S4R    S4R5    S8R    S8R5    S9R5    STRI3    STRI65    

SAX1    SAX2    SPRING1    

### Features tested

The following output variables describe the equivalent rigid body motion for any general dynamic motion:
- current coordinate (XC),
- displacement of the center of mass UC (URC),
- equivalent rigid body velocity components VC (VRC),
- current angular momentum about the center of mass (HC),
- current angular momentum about the center of origin (HO),
- current rotary inertia (RI),
- current mass (MASS), and
- current volume (VOL).

These output variables are valid only for direct-integration implicit dynamic procedures. The accuracy of these output variables is verified with a test suite that encompasses all elements that have mass and/or rotary inertia.

### Problem description

The equivalent rigid body motion output variables are specified in the results (`.fil`) and data (`.dat`) files. They can only be requested when using the direct-integration implicit dynamic procedure. These variables are considered *whole element set variables*, meaning that the quantity requested is summed over the element set specified. If no element set is specified, the quantity is summed over the entire model. The element set specified may contain elements which do not have mass (SPRINGs, DASHPOTs, etc.), but these elements will be ignored during the summation process. Specifying an element set in which all elements have no mass will elicit a warning message from Abaqus.

All of the verification problems below impose a rigid body motion on single element models. Each input file contains separate and distinct single element meshes corresponding to the many specific elements within that element category. For instance, the [xrbmcpes.inp](../eif/xrbmcpes.inp) input file tests all of the CPE type elements and contains single element meshes for the CPE3, CPE4, CPE4R, CPE6, CPE8, CPE8R elements (and hybrid versions of all these elements). Most of the problems impose a planar 90 rotation about the *z*-axis; the three-dimensional continuum problem imposes an oblique rotation. Separate output requests to the results file are given for each element set in the model.

### Results and discussion

These verification problems all impose a simple rigid body motion. In all cases the magnitude of the rigid body output variables should agree with the imposed motion. For some problems (such as those with an imposed constant velocity) the expected magnitudes of the output variables can be calculated directly from the imposed motion. In other problems the expected output variable magnitudes can be calculated from the imposed motion and the element geometry.

### Input files

[xrbmaxis.inp](../eif/xrbmaxis.inp)

Tests all axisymmetric elements, including axisymmetric shells. A constant *z*-velocity is imposed (there is no valid rotation in axisymmetric problems).

[xrbmbeam.inp](../eif/xrbmbeam.inp)

Tests all beam elements (excludes open section beams). A rigid 90 rotation is imposed about the *z*-axis.

[xrbmbepo.inp](../eif/xrbmbepo.inp)

Uses results of xrbmbeam.inp to verify the [*POST OUTPUT](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hpostoutput) option.

[xrbmt3ds.inp](../eif/xrbmt3ds.inp)

Tests all three-dimensional truss elements.

[xrbmc3ds.inp](../eif/xrbmc3ds.inp)

Tests all three-dimensional continuum elements. A rigid rotation is imposed about the direction (.707, .707, 0.0).

[xrbmcpeg.inp](../eif/xrbmcpeg.inp)

Tests all generalized plane strain elements.

[xrbmcpes.inp](../eif/xrbmcpes.inp)

Tests all plane strain elements.

[xrbmcper.inp](../eif/xrbmcper.inp)

Restart of xrbmcpes.inp. Tests [*RESTART](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mrestart) without END STEP.

[xrbmcpss.inp](../eif/xrbmcpss.inp)

Tests all plane stress elements.

[xrbmelbw.inp](../eif/xrbmelbw.inp)

Tests all elbow elements.

[xrbmmass.inp](../eif/xrbmmass.inp)

Tests the mass element. A constant *x*-velocity is imposed. Tests are done with and without the [*TRANSFORM](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mtransform) option.

[xrbmmemb.inp](../eif/xrbmmemb.inp)

Tests all membrane elements. A rigid rotation is imposed about the *z*-axis. Shell elements overlay the membranes for stability purposes.

[xrbmroti.inp](../eif/xrbmroti.inp)

Four separate tests of the rotary inertia element. The first test uses a constant velocity. The second imposes both a translation and rotation. The third is similar to the second, but adds the use of the [*TRANSFORM](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mtransform) option. The fourth test is similar to the second, but adds both [*TRANSFORM](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-mtransform) and [*ORIENTATION](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-morientation).

[xrbmshel.inp](../eif/xrbmshel.inp)

Tests all shell elements. A rigid 90 rotation is imposed about the *z*-axis.

#### The following tests contain two distinct element types:

[xrbmaxb1.inp](../eif/xrbmaxb1.inp)

This model consists of an axisymmetric solid and a three-dimensional beam element. A constant *y*-velocity is imposed. A rigid body output request is made for the axisymmetric element, and another is made for the whole model. This tests the format of the printed output. The axisymmetric printed output is limited to specific directions. With the addition of a three-dimensional beam, the whole model output must be given for all directions.

[xrbmaxb2.inp](../eif/xrbmaxb2.inp)

This test is similar to xrbmaxb1.inp, but the order of the element generation is reversed. The printed output should be identical to the output for xrbmaxb1.inp.

[xrbmaxb3.inp](../eif/xrbmaxb3.inp)

This test is similar to xrbmaxb1.inp but uses a two-dimensional beam element. Again, the purpose is to compare the format of the printed output for the axisymmetric element to the output for the whole model.

[xrbmsprg.inp](../eif/xrbmsprg.inp)

This model consists of a spring and a beam. A rigid body variable request is made for an element set containing only the spring. This should trigger a warning message from Abaqus. Another output request is made for the whole model. The output should agree with the imposed rigid rotation of the beam element.




