# 5.2.1 Writing element matrix output records







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Elements tested

B21    C3D8    DS3    DS4    

S4    S4R    S4R5    S8R    

### Features tested

The output and input of element matrices are tested.

### Problem description

These tests verify that the matrices written out by the element matrix output procedure are valid and that they can be input into an analysis and used again. The validity of the element matrices is tested by an analysis that uses the matrices to solve a linear problem.

### Results and discussion

**xemob21o.inp, xemob21u.inp**

The maximum displacement in this problem is 332.04. The computed displacements in both problems match this value, and the displacements at the other nodes match as well.

**xemoc38o.inp, xemoc38u.inp**

The maximum displacement of 2.0E4 occurs at nodes 3 and 7 in this problem. Both runs have identical displacement fields.

**xemods3o.inp, xemods4u.inp**

The temperature variation through the plate in this example is the same at all nodes. The bottom has a temperature of 0.0, the middle temperature is 746.0, and the top has a temperature of 994.7. The results for both cases are the same.

**xemods4o.inp, xemods4u.inp**

The temperature variation through the plate in this example is the same at all nodes. The bottom has a temperature of 0.0, the middle temperature is 746.2, and the top has a temperature of 994.69. The results for both runs are the same.

**xemos45o.inp, xemos45u.inp**

The maximum displacement of 8.6667E5 occurs at node 4 in both problems. However, the problem which uses the previously computed matrices is missing the rotation at node 1. This extra degree of freedom in the first run is a result of special procedures that activate the rotation if a boundary or loading condition is applied there. The precomputed element stiffness matrix does not have this capability.

**xemos4o.inp, xemos4u.inp**

The maximum displacement of 8.6667E5 occurs at node 4 in both problems. Both runs have identical displacement fields, including the rotations. There is no conditional activation of rotation degrees of freedom with the S4 elements as there is with the S4R5 elements.

**xemos4ro.inp, xemos4ru.inp**

The maximum displacement of 8.6667E5 occurs at node 4 in both problems. Both runs have identical displacement fields, including the rotations. There is no conditional activation of rotation degrees of freedom with the S4R elements, as there is with the S4R5 elements.

**xemos8ro.inp, xemos8ru.inp**

The maximum displacement of 3.6376 occurs at node 89. Both runs have the same displacements.

### Input files

#### Output of element matrix:

[xemob21o.inp](../eif/xemob21o.inp)

Cantilever made up of five B21 elements with a point load at the end. A static step is used to test the matrices.

[xemoc38o.inp](../eif/xemoc38o.inp)

One C3D8 element with distributed and concentrated loads. A static step is used to test the matrix.

[xemods3o.inp](../eif/xemods3o.inp)

One DS3 element with a distributed flux. A steady-state heat transfer step is used to test the matrix.

[xemods4o.inp](../eif/xemods4o.inp)

One DS4 element with a distributed flux. A steady-state heat transfer step is used to test the matrix.

[xemos45o.inp](../eif/xemos45o.inp)

One S4R5 element with concentrated loads. A static step is used to test the matrix.

[xemos4o.inp](../eif/xemos4o.inp)

One S4 element with concentrated loads. A static step is used to test the matrix.

[xemos4ro.inp](../eif/xemos4ro.inp)

One S4R element with concentrated loads. A static step is used to test the matrix.

[xemos8ro.inp](../eif/xemos8ro.inp)

One S8R element with distributed loads. A static step is used to test the matrix.

#### Input of element matrix:

[xemob21u.inp](../eif/xemob21u.inp)

Cantilever made up of five B21 elements with a point load at the end. A static step is used to test the matrices.

[xemoc38u.inp](../eif/xemoc38u.inp)

One C3D8 element with distributed and concentrated loads. A static step is used to test the matrix.

[xemods3u.inp](../eif/xemods3u.inp)

One DS3 element with a distributed flux. A steady-state heat transfer step is used to test the matrix.

[xemods4u.inp](../eif/xemods4u.inp)

One DS4 element with a distributed flux. A steady-state heat transfer step is used to test the matrix.

[xemos45u.inp](../eif/xemos45u.inp)

One S4R5 element with concentrated loads. A static step is used to test the matrix.

[xemos4u.inp](../eif/xemos4u.inp)

One S4 element with concentrated loads. A static step is used to test the matrix.

[xemos4ru.inp](../eif/xemos4ru.inp)

One S4R element with concentrated loads. A static step is used to test the matrix.

[xemos8ru.inp](../eif/xemos8ru.inp)

One S8R element with distributed loads. A static step is used to test the matrix.




