# 5.1.27 Surface-based tie constraint







**Products: **Abaqus/Standard  Abaqus/Explicit  

### Elements tested

AC2D3    AC2D4    AC2D4R    AC2D6    AC2D8    

AC3D4    AC3D5    AC3D6    AC3D8    AC3D8R    

AC3D10    AC3D15    AC3D20    

ACAX3    ACAX4    ACAX4R    ACAX6    ACAX8    

C3D4    C3D8    C3D8R    C3D10    C3D10M    

C3D4T    C3D6T    C3D8RT    C3D8P    C3D8T    C3D8PT    C3D10MP    

C3D15    C3D20    C3D20E    C3D20P    

CAX4    CAX4R    CAX4T    CAX8    CAX3T    CAX8T    

CPE3    CPE4R    CPE3T    CPE4    CPE4P    CPE6    CPE6MP    CPE8    CPE8P    

CPS3T    CPS4    CPS4R    CPS8    

DC3D8    DC3D8E    DCAX4    DS4    DSAX1    DSAX2    

MAX2    

R2D2    R3D4    

B21    B31    PIPE21    PIPE31    

M3D4R    

S3RT    S4    S4R    S4RT    S4T    S8RT    SAX1    SAX2    SAX2T    SC6RT    SC8RT    

### Features tested

The surface-based tie constraint is tested for a number of general cases and for the special case of acoustic-structural coupling.

### Problem description

These tests verify the performance of the surface-based tie constraint for various analyses using acoustic, continuum, and shell elements with the surfaces defined in different ways.

### Results and discussion

The results for the general cases indicate that the surfaces can be adjusted and tied appropriately.

In the suite of coupled acoustic-structural input files each of the acoustic element types is tested in both slave and master roles, tied to master surfaces formed of solid continuum elements of similar interpolation order. In addition, the suite includes input files testing the quadratic acoustic element types in the slave role, with linear solid continuum elements forming the master surfaces. The results indicate that the fluid-solid coupling functions correctly.

### Input files

##### **Abaqus/Standard input files**

[xtie_solid.inp](../eif/xtie_solid.inp)

Tie solid elements with surfaces defined in different ways.

[xtie_solid_combine.inp](../eif/xtie_solid_combine.inp)

Tie solid elements with surfaces combined.

[xtie_shell.inp](../eif/xtie_shell.inp)

Tie shell elements with surfaces defined in different ways.

[xtie_shell_norot.inp](../eif/xtie_shell_norot.inp)

Tie shell elements with surfaces defined in different ways. The rotational degrees of freedom are not tied.

[xtie_shell_beam.inp](../eif/xtie_shell_beam.inp)

Tie beam and shell elements together.

[xtie_solid_shell.inp](../eif/xtie_solid_shell.inp)

Tie solid and shell elements together.

[xtie_shell_shell.inp](../eif/xtie_shell_shell.inp)

Tie two shell elements that are perpendicular to each other.

[xtie_shell_shell_norot.inp](../eif/xtie_shell_shell_norot.inp)

Tie two shell elements that are perpendicular to each other. The rotational degrees of freedom are not tied.

[xtie_shell_shell_nothick.inp](../eif/xtie_shell_shell_nothick.inp)

Tie two shell elements that are perpendicular to each other without accounting for the shell thickness.

[xtie_shell_shell_offset.inp](../eif/xtie_shell_shell_offset.inp)

Tie shell elements defined using shell offset.

[xtie_c3d20_c3d8.inp](../eif/xtie_c3d20_c3d8.inp)

Tie second-order and first-order solid elements together.

[xtie_cax4_sax1.inp](../eif/xtie_cax4_sax1.inp)

Tie first-order axisymmetric solid and shell elements together.

[xtie_cax8_sax2.inp](../eif/xtie_cax8_sax2.inp)

Tie second-order axisymmetric solid and shell elements together.

[xtie_r2d2.inp](../eif/xtie_r2d2.inp)

Tie two-dimensional solid elements to a surface defined by a rigid element.

[xtie_r3d4.inp](../eif/xtie_r3d4.inp)

Tie three-dimensional solid elements to a surface defined by a rigid element.

[xtie_rigid2d.inp](../eif/xtie_rigid2d.inp)

Tie two-dimensional solid elements to an analytical rigid surface.

[xtie_rigid3d.inp](../eif/xtie_rigid3d.inp)

Tie three-dimensional solid elements to an analytical rigid surface.

[xtie_elec_heat.inp](../eif/xtie_elec_heat.inp)

Tie elements in a coupled electrical-heat analysis.

[xtie_shell_axisy_heat.inp](../eif/xtie_shell_axisy_heat.inp)

Tie two axisymmetric shell elements in a heat transfer analysis.

[xtie_shell_heat.inp](../eif/xtie_shell_heat.inp)

Tie two shell elements in a heat transfer analysis.

[xtie_shell_solid_axisy_heat.inp](../eif/xtie_shell_solid_axisy_heat.inp)

Tie axisymmetric shell and solid elements together in a heat transfer analysis.

[xtie_shell_solid_heat.inp](../eif/xtie_shell_solid_heat.inp)

Tie shell and solid elements together in a heat transfer analysis.

[xtie_shell_axisy_couple.inp](../eif/xtie_shell_axisy_couple.inp)

Tie axisymmetric shell elements in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_shell_couple.inp](../eif/xtie_shell_couple.inp)

Tie two shell elements in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_shell_solid_axisy_couple.inp](../eif/xtie_shell_solid_axisy_couple.inp)

Tie axisymmetric shell and solid elements together in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_shell_solid_couple.inp](../eif/xtie_shell_solid_couple.inp)

Tie shell and solid elements together in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_s4t.inp](../eif/xtie_s4t.inp)

Tie S4T elements together in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_s4rt.inp](../eif/xtie_s4rt.inp)

Tie S4RT elements together in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_s3rt.inp](../eif/xtie_s3rt.inp)

Tie S3RT elements together in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_cpe3t.inp](../eif/xtie_cpe3t.inp)

Tie CPE3T elements together in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_cps3t.inp](../eif/xtie_cps3t.inp)

Tie CPS3T elements together in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_cax3t.inp](../eif/xtie_cax3t.inp)

Tie CAX3T elements together in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_c3d4t.inp](../eif/xtie_c3d4t.inp)

Tie C3D4T elements together in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_c3d6t.inp](../eif/xtie_c3d6t.inp)

Tie C3D6T elements together in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_sc6rt.inp](../eif/xtie_sc6rt.inp)

Tie SC6RT elements together in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_sc8rt.inp](../eif/xtie_sc8rt.inp)

Tie SC8RT elements together in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_cpe4p.inp](../eif/xtie_cpe4p.inp)

Tie CPE4P elements with the surfaces defined in different ways.

[xtie_cpe8p.inp](../eif/xtie_cpe8p.inp)

Tie CPE8P elements with the surfaces defined in different ways.

[xtie_cpe6mp.inp](../eif/xtie_cpe6mp.inp)

Tie CPE6MP elements with the surfaces defined in different ways.

[xtie_c3d8p.inp](../eif/xtie_c3d8p.inp)

Tie C3D8P elements with the surfaces defined in different ways.

[xtie_c3d10mp.inp](../eif/xtie_c3d10mp.inp)

Tie C3D10MP elements with the surfaces defined in different ways.

[xtie_c3d20p.inp](../eif/xtie_c3d20p.inp)

Tie C3D20P elements with the surfaces defined in different ways.

[xtie_piezo.inp](../eif/xtie_piezo.inp)

Tie continuum and piezoelectric elements.

[xtie_rigid_couple.inp](../eif/xtie_rigid_couple.inp)

Tie a three-dimensional element to a rigid surface in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_analyt_rigid_couple.inp](../eif/xtie_analyt_rigid_couple.inp)

Tie a three-dimensional element to an analytical rigid surface in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_solid_2d_2ties.inp](../eif/xtie_solid_2d_2ties.inp)

Use two pairs of tie constraints in two dimensions.

[xtie_solid_3d_5ties.inp](../eif/xtie_solid_3d_5ties.inp)

Use five pairs of tie constraints in three dimensions.

[xtie_cax8t_sax2t_cax8t.inp](../eif/xtie_cax8t_sax2t_cax8t.inp)

Tie a SAX2T element with two CAX8T elements in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_cax8_max2_cax8.inp](../eif/xtie_cax8_max2_cax8.inp)

Tie a MAX2 element with two CAX8 elements.

[xtie_isolated_nodes.inp](../eif/xtie_isolated_nodes.inp)

Tie two-dimensional elements to isolated nodes.

[ec234afat.inp](../eif/ec234afat.inp)

AC2D3 and CPS4 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[ec244afat.inp](../eif/ec244afat.inp)

AC2D4 and CPS4 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[ec264afat.inp](../eif/ec264afat.inp)

AC2D6 and CPS4 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis (acoustic slave-only case).

[ec268afat.inp](../eif/ec268afat.inp)

AC2D6 and CPS8 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[ec284afat.inp](../eif/ec284afat.inp)

AC2D8 and CPS4 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis (acoustic slave-only case).

[ec288afat.inp](../eif/ec288afat.inp)

AC2D8 and CPS8 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[ec348afat.inp](../eif/ec348afat.inp)

AC3D4 and C3D8 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[ec358afat.inp](../eif/ec358afat.inp)

AC3D5 and C3D8 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[ec368afat.inp](../eif/ec368afat.inp)

AC3D6 and C3D8 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[ec388afat.inp](../eif/ec388afat.inp)

AC3D8 and C3D8 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[ec3a8afat.inp](../eif/ec3a8afat.inp)

AC3D10 and C3D8 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis (acoustic slave-only case).

[ec3afafat.inp](../eif/ec3afafat.inp)

AC3D10 and C3D15 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[ec3f8afat.inp](../eif/ec3f8afat.inp)

AC3D15 and C3D8 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis (acoustic slave-only case).

[ec3ffafat.inp](../eif/ec3ffafat.inp)

AC3D15 and C3D15 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[ec3k8afat.inp](../eif/ec3k8afat.inp)

AC3D20 and C3D8 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis (acoustic slave-only case).

[ec3kkafat.inp](../eif/ec3kkafat.inp)

AC3D20 and C3D20 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[eca34afat.inp](../eif/eca34afat.inp)

ACAX3 and CAX4 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[eca44afat.inp](../eif/eca44afat.inp)

ACAX4 and CAX4 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[eca64afat.inp](../eif/eca64afat.inp)

ACAX6 and CAX4 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis (acoustic slave-only case).

[eca68afat.inp](../eif/eca68afat.inp)

ACAX6 and CAX8 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[eca84afat.inp](../eif/eca84afat.inp)

ACAX8 and CAX4 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis (acoustic slave-only case).

[eca88afat.inp](../eif/eca88afat.inp)

ACAX8 and CAX8 elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[tie_moddyn_ac2d3.inp](../eif/tie_moddyn_ac2d3.inp)

AC2D3 and CPS4R elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis using the [*DYNAMIC](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdynamic) and [*MODAL DYNAMIC](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hmodaldyn) analysis types.

[tie_moddyn_ac2d4.inp](../eif/tie_moddyn_ac2d4.inp)

AC2D4 and CPS4R elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis using the [*DYNAMIC](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdynamic) and [*MODAL DYNAMIC](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hmodaldyn) analysis types.

[tie_moddyn_ac3d4.inp](../eif/tie_moddyn_ac3d4.inp)

AC3D4 and C3D8R elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis using the [*DYNAMIC](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdynamic) and [*MODAL DYNAMIC](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hmodaldyn) analysis types.

[tie_moddyn_ac3d5.inp](../eif/tie_moddyn_ac3d5.inp)

AC3D5 and C3D8R elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis using the [*DYNAMIC](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdynamic) and [*MODAL DYNAMIC](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hmodaldyn) analysis types.

[tie_moddyn_ac3d6.inp](../eif/tie_moddyn_ac3d6.inp)

AC3D6 and C3D8R elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis using the [*DYNAMIC](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdynamic) and [*MODAL DYNAMIC](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hmodaldyn) analysis types.

[tie_moddyn_ac3d8.inp](../eif/tie_moddyn_ac3d8.inp)

AC3D8 and C3D8R elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis using the [*DYNAMIC](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdynamic) and [*MODAL DYNAMIC](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hmodaldyn) analysis types.

[tie_moddyn_acax3.inp](../eif/tie_moddyn_acax3.inp)

ACAX3 and CAX4R elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis using the [*DYNAMIC](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdynamic) and [*MODAL DYNAMIC](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hmodaldyn) analysis types.

[tie_moddyn_acax4.inp](../eif/tie_moddyn_acax4.inp)

ACAX4 and CAX4R elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis using the [*DYNAMIC](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hdynamic) and [*MODAL DYNAMIC](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-hmodaldyn) analysis types.

[tie_shell_cgax4.inp](../eif/tie_shell_cgax4.inp)

Test tie between SAX1 element and CGAX4 element for rotation when the slave and master surfaces are apart.

[tie_beam_cps4.inp](../eif/tie_beam_cps4.inp)

Test tie between B21 element and CPS4 element for rotation when the slave and master surfaces are apart.

[tie_beam_memb.inp](../eif/tie_beam_memb.inp)

Test tie between B31 element and M3D4 element for rotation when the slave and master surfaces are apart.

[tie_beam_surf.inp](../eif/tie_beam_surf.inp)

Test tie between B31 element and SFM3D4 element for rotation when the slave and master surfaces are apart.

[tie_cps4_beam.inp](../eif/tie_cps4_beam.inp)

Test tie between CPS4 element and B21 element when CPS4 is the master and the slave and master surfaces are apart.

[tie_cax4_shell.inp](../eif/tie_cax4_shell.inp)

Test tie between SAX1 element and CAX4 element when CAX4 is the master and the slave and master surfaces are apart.

[tie_c3d8_shell.inp](../eif/tie_c3d8_shell.inp)

Test tie between C3D8 element and S4R element when C3D8 is the master and the slave and master surfaces are apart.

[tie_shell_shell_constraint.inp](../eif/tie_shell_shell_constraint.inp)

Test tie between S4R element and S4R element when the CONSTRAINT RATIO parameter is specified.

[tie_acoinf_edge.inp](../eif/tie_acoinf_edge.inp)

Test edge-to-edge tie for ACIN3D4 elements.

[tie_memb_memb_edge.inp](../eif/tie_memb_memb_edge.inp)

Test edge-to-edge tie for M3D4 elements.

[tie_memb_rigid_edge.inp](../eif/tie_memb_rigid_edge.inp)

Test edge-to-edge tie between M3D4 and R3D4 elements.

[tie_shell_shell_edge.inp](../eif/tie_shell_shell_edge.inp)

Test edge-to-edge tie for S8R elements.

[tie_surf_surf_edge.inp](../eif/tie_surf_surf_edge.inp)

Test edge-to-edge tie for SFM3D4 elements.

[ctp_tie.inp](../eif/ctp_tie.inp)

Test surface tie for C3D8PT elements.

[ctp_tie_nodesurf.inp](../eif/ctp_tie_nodesurf.inp)

Test nodal surface tie for C3D8PT elements.

##### **Abaqus/Explicit input files**

[xtie_xpl_solid.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_solid.inp)

Tie solid elements with surfaces defined in different ways.

[xtie_xpl_c3d8.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_c3d8.inp)

Tie C3D8 elements with surfaces defined in different ways.

[xtie_xpl_sc8rt_couple.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_sc8rt_couple.inp)

Tie SC8RT elements with surfaces defined in different ways.

[xtie_xpl_solid_ss.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_solid_ss.inp)

Same as xtie_xpl_solid.inp except surface-to-surface tie formulation is used.

[xtie_xpl_shell.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_shell.inp)

Tie shell elements with surfaces defined in different ways.

[xtie_xpl_shell_s4.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_shell_s4.inp)

Tie S4 elements with surfaces defined in different ways.

[xtie_xpl_shell_ss.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_shell_ss.inp)

Same as xtie_xpl_shell.inp except surface-to-surface tie formulation is used.

[xtie_xpl_shell_norot.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_shell_norot.inp)

Tie shell elements with surfaces defined in different ways. The rotational degrees of freedom are not tied.

[xtie_xpl_solid_shell.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_solid_shell.inp)

Tie solid and shell elements together.

[xtie_xpl_solid_shell_ss.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_solid_shell_ss.inp)

Same as xtie_xpl_solid_shell.inp except surface-to-surface tie formulation is used.

[xtie_xpl_shell_shell.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_shell_shell.inp)

Tie two shell elements that are perpendicular to each other.

[xtie_xpl_shell_shell_norot.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_shell_shell_norot.inp)

Tie two shell elements that are perpendicular to each other. The rotational degrees of freedom are not tied.

[xtie_xpl_shell_shell_nothick.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_shell_shell_nothick.inp)

Same as xtie_xpl_shell_shell.inp except thickness is not considered in the tie constraints.

[xtie_xpl_shell_shell_ss_nothick.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_shell_shell_ss_nothick.inp)

Same as xtie_xpl_shell_shell.inp except surface-to-surface tie formulation is used and thickness is not considered in the tie constraints.

[xtie_xpl_shell_cratio.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_shell_cratio.inp)

Tie two shell elements that are not adjusted. The rotational degrees of freedom are not tied and a constraint ratio value is prescribed.

[xtie_xpl_cax4_sax1.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_cax4_sax1.inp)

Tie first-order axisymmetric solid and shell elements together.

[xtie_xpl_beam.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_beam.inp)

Tie beam elements together.

[xtie_xpl_beamsolid.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_beamsolid.inp)

Tie beam and solid elements together.

[xtie_xpl_beamshell.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_beamshell.inp)

Tie beam and shell elements together.

[xtie_xpl_beammembrane.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_beammembrane.inp)

Tie beam and membrane elements together.

[xtie_xpl_pipe.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_pipe.inp)

Tie pipe elements together.

[xtie_xpl_pipesolid.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_pipesolid.inp)

Tie pipe and solid elements together.

[xtie_xpl_pipeshell.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_pipeshell.inp)

Tie pipe and shell elements together.

[xtie_xpl_pipemembrane.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_pipemembrane.inp)

Tie pipe and membrane elements together.

[xtie_xpl_r2d2.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_r2d2.inp)

Tie two-dimensional solid elements to a surface defined by a rigid element.

[xtie_xpl_r3d4.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_r3d4.inp)

Tie three-dimensional solid elements to a surface defined by a rigid element.

[xtie_xpl_rigid2d.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_rigid2d.inp)

Tie two-dimensional solid elements to an analytical rigid surface.

[xtie_xpl_rigid3d.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_rigid3d.inp)

Tie three-dimensional solid elements to an analytical rigid surface.

[xtie_xpl_rigrig2d.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_rigrig2d.inp)

Tie two-dimensional rigid bodies.

[xtie_xpl_rigrig3d.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_rigrig3d.inp)

Tie three-dimensional rigid bodies.

[xtie_xpl_solid_couple.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_solid_couple.inp)

Tie three-dimensional solid elements in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_xpl_rigid_couple.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_rigid_couple.inp)

Tie a three-dimensional element to a rigid surface in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_xpl_analyt_rigid_couple.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_analyt_rigid_couple.inp)

Tie a three-dimensional element to an analytical rigid surface in a coupled thermal-stress analysis.

[xtie_xpl_solid_2d_2ties.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_solid_2d_2ties.inp)

Use two pairs of tie constraints in two dimensions.

[xtie_xpl_solid_2d_2ties_ss.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_solid_2d_2ties_ss.inp)

Same as xtie_xpl_solid_2d_2ties.inp except surface-to-surface tie formulation is used.

[xtie_xpl_solid_3d_5ties.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_solid_3d_5ties.inp)

Use five pairs of tie constraints in three dimensions.

[xtie_xpl_solid_3d_5ties_ss.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_solid_3d_5ties_ss.inp)

Same as xtie_xpl_solid_3d_5ties.inp except surface-to-surface tie formulation is used.

[xtie_xpl_shell_3d_4ties.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_shell_3d_4ties.inp)

Use four pairs of tie constraints to tie five shells in three dimensions.

[xtie_xpl_isolated_nodes.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_isolated_nodes.inp)

Tie two-dimensional elements to isolated nodes.

[xtie_xpl_ac2d3.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_ac2d3.inp)

AC2D3 and CPS4R elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[xtie_xpl_ac2d4.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_ac2d4.inp)

AC2D4R and CPS4R elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[xtie_xpl_ac3d4.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_ac3d4.inp)

AC3D4 and C3D8R elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[xtie_xpl_ac3d6.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_ac3d6.inp)

AC3D6 and C3D8R elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[xtie_xpl_ac3d8.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_ac3d8.inp)

AC3D8R and C3D8R elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[xtie_xpl_acax3.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_acax3.inp)

ACAX3 and CAX4R elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.

[xtie_xpl_acax4.inp](../eif/xtie_xpl_acax4.inp)

ACAX4R and CAX4R elements in a coupled acoustic-solid analysis.




