# 5.2.2 Substructure matrix output request







**Product: **Abaqus/Standard  

### Element tested

C3D8

### Features tested

The output and input of substructure matrices and load case vectors are tested.

### Problem description

These tests verify that the matrices and load vectors written out by the substructure matrix output procedure are valid and that they can be input into an analysis and used again. The validity of the results is tested by an analysis that uses the matrices and load vectors to solve a linear problem.

### Results and discussion

**xsmon2so.inp, xsmon2su.inp**

The maximum displacement of 2.0E4 occurs at node 3 in this problem. Both runs have identical displacement fields.

**xsmop1so.inp, xsmop1su.inp**

The maximum displacement of 2.0E4 occurs at node 3 in this problem. Both runs have identical displacement fields.

### Input files

#### Output of element matrix:

[xsmon2so.inp](../eif/xsmon2so.inp)

A substructure made up of one C3D8 element with distributed loads in one [*SUBSTRUCTURE LOAD CASE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-ssubloadcase) and concentrated loads in another. A static step is used to test the matrix and load vectors.

[xsmop1so.inp](../eif/xsmop1so.inp)

A substructure made up of one C3D8 element with concentrated loads applied in a preloading step and distributed loads applied in a [*SUBSTRUCTURE LOAD CASE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-ssubloadcase). A static step is used to test the matrix and load vectors.

#### Input of element matrix:

[xsmon2su.inp](../eif/xsmon2su.inp)

A substructure made up of one C3D8 element with distributed loads in one [*SUBSTRUCTURE LOAD CASE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-ssubloadcase) and concentrated loads in another. A static step is used to test the matrix and load vectors.

[xsmop1su.inp](../eif/xsmop1su.inp)

A substructure made up of one C3D8 element with concentrated loads applied in a preloading step and distributed loads applied in a [*SUBSTRUCTURE LOAD CASE](../key/key-link.md#usb-kws-ssubloadcase). A static step is used to test the matrix and load vectors.




